@@@@@TITLE: 2024 Nobel Prize in Literature@@@@@
The 2024 Nobel Prize in Literature was awarded to the South Korean author Han Kang (born 1970) "for her intense poetic prose that confronts historical traumas and exposes the fragility of human life". It was announced by the Swedish Academy in Stockholm, Sweden, on 10 October 2024 and was awarded on 10 December 2024. 
She is the first South Korean and first Asian woman to win the Nobel Prize in Literature, making her the 18th woman to win the Nobel Prize in Literature and the tenth Asian laureate in that Nobel Prize category.

== Laureate ==
Han Kang grew up with a literary background in Seoul, her father, Han Seung-won, being a reputed novelist. Alongside her passion for writing, she spends time exploring arts and music, which is reflected throughout her literary production. She started her career in 1993 with the publication of her poems in the literary magazine Literature and Society, and had her debut prose publication in 1995 with the short story collection Love of Yeosu [여수의 사랑]. Her major breakthrough came with the 2007 novel The Vegetarian [채식주의자], a book that portrays the violent consequences that ensue when its protagonist suddenly begins to refuse to eat meat. Her experimental and often disturbing stories are characterized by a double exposure of pain and a correspondence between mental and physical torment, confronting historical traumas and invisible sets of rules and the fragility of human life. Her other well-known works include Human Acts [소년이 온다], The White Book [흰], Greek Lessons [희랍어 시간] and We Do Not Part [작별하지 않는다].

== Prize announcement ==
After the announcement, Anders Olsson, chairman of the Academy's Nobel Committee, said in a statement: "She has a unique awareness of the connections between body and soul, the living and the dead, and in her poetic and experimental style has become an innovator in contemporary prose."
Anna-Karin Palm was interviewed by Carin Klaesson, a correspondent of the Nobel Prize Museum, and described Han Kang's writing with the following statement: "I would say this is a very rich and complex oeuvre that spans many genres, and [she] writes really intense lyrical prose that is both tender and brutal and, sometimes, slightly surrealistic as well... There's a continuity as to themes that is quite remarkable but at the same time a huge stylistic variation that makes every book a new aspect or a new expression of these central themes."

== Reactions ==
=== Personal reactions ===
Han Kang had just finished dinner with her son at her home in Seoul when she received the information. Both she and her son were so surprised that they did not even have the time to properly discuss it. She stated that she was "honored" to receive the prize. Being the first Nobel laureate in literature in South Korea, she said: "Yes. I grew up with books, you know, so since when I was a child, I grew up with books in Korean and translated as well. So I can say I grew up with Korean literature, which I feel very close to. So I hope this news is nice for Korean literature readers and my friends, writers... For me, since when I was a child, all writers have been collective. They are searching meanings in life. Sometimes they are lost and sometimes they are determined and all their efforts and all their strengths have been my inspiration. So it's very difficult for me to pick some names of the inspiration. It's very difficult for me."
Asked by Nobel correspondent, Jenny Rydén, where someone just discovering her work should start, she suggested: "I think every writer likes his or her most recent book. So my most recent book is We Do Not Part or it is called I Do Not Bid Farewell or Impossible Goodbyes. I hope this book could be a start. And Human Acts is connected directly with this book We Do Not Part. And then The White Book, which is very personal book for me. Because it's quite autobiographical. And there is The Vegetarian. But I feel the start could be We Do Not Part.
Later on, Han Kang said her celebrations would be low-key: "After this phone call I'd like to have tea with - I don't drink so - I'm going to have tea with my son and I'll celebrate it quietly tonight."

=== International reactions ===
Discussing the choice of Han Kang as the Nobel laureate on Sveriges Television minutes after the announcement, a panel of the Swedish literature critics Ingrid Elam, Jonas Thente and author Lyra Ekström Lindbäck disagreed on the Swedish Academy's choice. Elam said it was a very good choice, calling Han Kang "a fantastic author", while the others had not been impressed by her writing. "Nobody is going to remember her in fifty years' time", Thente said.
A negative reaction also appeared in Expressen by literature critic Victor Malm who called it "a rather weak choice". Svenska Dagbladet's literature editor Josefin de Gregorio was pleased with the choice, praising Han Kang for her "dynamic, transgressive writing that portrays deep evil and great trauma with lyrical beauty and vulnerability" and the Academy's choice of a young and popular writer. Irish novelist Eimear McBride was also pleased, calling Han Kang "one of the greatest living writers"; “She is a voice for women, for truth and, above all, for the power of what literature can be. This is a very richly deserved win.”
The choice of Han Kang was well received by several German commentators, who found it a good choice and positive that the Swedish Academy after heavy focus on European literature in recent years had chosen a writer from another part of the world. "One can call it strange for an award that aims to do comparative justice to all national literatures that so far so few Asian or African authors have been given consideration”, Andreas Platthaus in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung wrote. 

==== South Korean reactions ====
While visiting Laos for a meeting of Asian leaders, South Korean president Yoon Suk Yeol posted on his Facebook account his warmest greetings, saying: "It is a monumental achievement in the history of Korean literature and a national celebration that brings joy to all the people. You have transformed the painful wounds of our modern history into a great literary work. I extend my deepest respect to you for elevating the value of Korean literature."
BTS member V shared in the news on Instagram, writing: "I read your book 'Human Act: A Novel' in the army. Congratulations" alongside a bowing emoji. The literary critic Kim Seong-shin expressed that the Academy's choice of Han was beyond reproach, affirming: "I'd say she is the most deserving Korean novelist to be awarded the Nobel Prize."
A number of South Korean writers celebrated the news, among them Min Jin Lee, author of Pachinko, who commented: "Han Kang is a brilliant novelist who reflects our modern condition with courage, imagination, and intelligence. She is most worthy of this global recognition." Science fiction author Kim Bo-young said, "We cheer and rejoice. I am even prouder and happier that this winning of the prize directly refutes the foolishness of trying to hide and distort Korea's past history."

== Nobel lecture ==
Han Kang delivered her Nobel lecture on 7 December 2024 at the Swedish Academy in Stockholm. Entitled Light and thread, she talked about the thread of language that connects people.

== Award ceremony ==
At the award ceremony in Stockholm on 10 December 2024, Ellen Mattson of the Swedish Academy and the Nobel committee spoke about the major theme in Han Kang's writing represented by two recurring colours: The white is the snow that falls in so many of her books, drawing a protective curtain between the narrator and the world, but white is also the colour of sorrow, and of death. Red stands for life, but also for pain, blood, the deep cuts of a knife. While her voice can be seductively soft, it speaks of indescribable cruelty, of irreparable loss. (...) The white and the red symbolize a historical experience that Han returns to in her novels. 

== Nobel Committee ==
The 2024 Nobel Committee is composed of the following members:

== References ==

== External links ==
The Nobel Prize in Literature nobelprize.org
Swedish Academy svenskaakademien.se/en

@@@@@
TITLE: Han Kang
Han Kang (Korean: 한강; born 27 November 1970) is a South Korean writer. From 2007 to 2018, she taught creative writing at the Seoul Institute of the Arts. Han rose to international prominence for her novel The Vegetarian, which became the first Korean language novel to win the International Booker Prize for fiction in 2016. Han is the first Asian woman and Korean to be a recipient of the Nobel Prize in Literature, receiving the award in 2024 in recognition of her "intense poetic prose that confronts historical traumas and exposes the fragility of human life".


== Early life and education ==
Han Kang was born on 27 November 1970 in Gwangju, South Korea. According to her father, she is named for the Han River (Korean: 한강; RR: Hangang). Her family is noted for its literary background. Her father is novelist Han Seung-won. Her older brother, Han Dong-rim, is also a novelist, while her younger brother, Han Kang-in, is a novelist and cartoonist.
At the age of nine, Han moved to Suyu-ri in Seoul, when her father quit his teaching job to become a full-time writer, four months before the Gwangju Uprising, a pro-democracy movement that ended in the military's massacre of students and civilians. She first learned about the massacre when she was 12, after discovering at home a secretly circulated memorial album of photographs taken by a German journalist, Jürgen Hinzpeter. This discovery deeply influenced her view on humanity and her literary works.
Han's father struggled to make ends meet with his writing career, which negatively impacted his family. Han later described her childhood as "too much for a little child"; however, being surrounded by books gave her comfort. In 1988, she graduated from Poongmoon Girls' High School, now Poongmoon High School, where she had been a class president. In 1993, Han graduated from Yonsei University, where she majored in Korean language and literature. In 1998, she participated in the University of Iowa International Writing Program for three months with support from the Arts Council Korea.


== Career ==
After graduating from Yonsei University, Han briefly worked as a reporter for the monthly Saemteo magazine. Han's literary career began the same year when five of her poems, including "Winter in Seoul", were featured in the Winter 1993 issue of the quarterly Literature and Society. She made her fiction debut the next year, under the name Han Kang-hyun, when her short story "The Scarlet Anchor" won the New Year's Literary Contest held by the Seoul Shinmun. Her first short story collection, A Love of Yeosu, was published in 1995 and attracted attention for its precise and tightly narrated structure. After the publication, she quit her magazine job to solely focus on writing literature.
In 2007, Han published a book, A Song to Sing Calmly (가만가만 부르는 노래), that was accompanied by a music album. At first she did not intend to sing, but Han Jeong-rim, a musician and music director, insisted that Han Kang record the songs herself. The same year, she started working as a professor in the Department of Creative Writing at the Seoul Institute of the Arts until 2018.
In her college years Han became obsessed with a line of poetry by the Korean modernist poet Yi Sang: "I believe that humans should be plants." She understood Yi's line to imply a defensive stance against the violence of Korea's colonial history under Japanese occupation and took it as an inspiration to write her most successful work, The Vegetarian. The second part of the three-part novel, Mongolian Mark, won the Yi Sang Literary Award. The rest of the series (The Vegetarian and Fire Tree) was delayed by contractual problems.
The Vegetarian was Han's first novel translated into English, although she had already attracted worldwide attention by the time Deborah Smith translated it. The translated work won the International Booker Prize 2016 for both Han and Smith. Han was the first Korean writer to be nominated for the award, and The Vegetarian was the first Korean language novel to win the International Booker Prize for fiction. The Vegetarian was also chosen as one of "The 10 Best Books of 2016" by The New York Times Book Review.

Han's novel Human Acts was released in January 2016 by Portobello Books. Han received the Premio Malaparte for the Italian translation of Human Acts, Atti Umani, by Adelphi Edizioni, in Italy on 1 October 2017. The English translation of the novel was shortlisted for the 2018 International Dublin Literary Award.
Han's third novel, The White Book, was shortlisted for the 2018 International Booker Prize. An autobiographical novel, it centers on the loss of her older sister, a baby who died two hours after her birth.
Han's novel We Do Not Part was published in 2021. It tells the story of a writer researching the 1948–49 Jeju uprising and its impact on her friend's family. The French translation of the novel won the Prix Médicis Étranger in 2023.
In 2023, Han's fourth full-length novel, Greek Lessons, was translated into English by Deborah Smith and E Yaewon. The Atlantic magazine called it a book in which "words are both insufficient and too powerful to tame".
In 2024, Han's short story "Heavy Snow" was published by the 18 November 2024 issue of The New Yorker.
In 2025, Han was among 414 South Korean writers who were signatories to a petition urging the Constitutional Court of Korea to uphold the impeachment of suspended president Yoon Suk Yeol over his martial law declaration.


== Personal life ==
Han was married to Hong Yong-hee, a literary critic and professor at Kyung Hee Cyber University. In 2024, Han stated that they had been divorced for many years. Han has a son, and they ran a bookstore in Seoul together from 2018 until November 2024, when she stepped down from its management.
Han has said that she suffers from periodic migraines and credits them with "keeping her humble".


== Awards and recognition ==
Han won the Yi Sang Literary Award (2005) for Mongolian Mark (the second part of The Vegetarian), the 25th Korean Novel Award for her novella Baby Buddha in 1999, the 2000 Today's Young Artist Award from the Korean Ministry of Culture, and the 2010 Dongri Literary Award for The Wind is Blowing.
In 2018, Han became the fifth writer chosen to contribute to the Future Library project. Katie Paterson, the project's organizer, said that Han had been chosen because she "expands our view of the world". Han delivered the manuscript, Dear Son, My Beloved, in May 2019. In the handover ceremony, she dragged a white cloth through the forest and wrapped it around the manuscript. She explained this as a reference to Korean culture, in which a white cloth is used both for babies and for mourning gowns, describing the event as "like a wedding of my manuscript with this forest. Or a lullaby for a century-long sleep".
Han was elected a Royal Society of Literature International Writer in 2023, recognizing her significant contributions to global literature and the impact of her works beyond South Korea.
The Vegetarian placed 49th in The New York Times's "100 Best Books of the 21st century" in July 2024.


=== Nobel Prize in Literature ===

In 2024, Han was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature by the Swedish Academy for her "intense poetic prose that confronts historical traumas and exposes the fragility of human life". This made her the first Korean writer and the first female Asian writer to be awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. The awarding was widely celebrated in South Korea, while international reactions were mixed. Han herself said she was surprised but honoured by the recognition. Han delivered her Nobel lecture, titled Light and Thread, on 7 December 2024 at the Swedish Academy in Stockholm.


=== Awards ===
1999 – Korean Novel Award for Baby Buddha
2000 – Korean Ministry of Culture Today's Young Artist Award – Literature Section
2005 – Yi Sang Literary Award for Mongolian Mark
2010 – Dongri Literary Award for The Wind is Blowing
2014 – Manhae Literary Award for Human Acts
2015 – Hwang Sun-won Literary Award for While One Snowflake Melts
2016 – Yonsei Award for Excellence in Liberal Arts
2016 – International Booker Prize for The Vegetarian
2017 – Malaparte Prize for Human Acts
2018 – Kim Yu-jeong Literary Award for Farewell
2018 – San Clemente Literary Prize for The Vegetarian
2019 – Inchon Award Media & Culture Section
2019 – Future Library project Writer of the Year
2022 – Daesan Literary Award for We Do Not Part
2022 – Kim Man-jung Literary Award for We Do Not Part
2023 – Prix Médicis étranger  for We Do Not Part
2024 – Émile Guimet Prize for Asian Literature for We Do Not Part
2024 – Ho-Am Prize in the Arts
2024 – Nobel Prize in Literature
2024 – Pony Chung Innovation Award


== Bibliography ==


=== Novels ===
—— (1995).  여수의 사랑 [Love in Yeosu] (in Korean). Moonji. ISBN 9788932007502.
—— (1998).  검은 사슴 [Black Deer] (in Korean). Munhakdongne. ISBN 9788982811333.
—— (2000).  내 여자의 열매 [My Woman's Fruits] (in Korean). Changbi. ISBN 9788936436575.
—— (2002).  그대의 차가운 손 [Your Cold Hands] (in Korean). Moonji. ISBN 9788932013046.
—— (2007).  채식주의자 [The Vegetarian] (in Korean). Changbi. ISBN 9788936433598.
—— (2010).  바람이 분다, 가라 [The Wind Blows, Go] (in Korean). Moonji. ISBN 9788932020006.
—— (2011).  희랍어 시간 [Greek Lessons] (in Korean). Munhakdongne. ISBN 9788954616515.
—— (2012).  노랑무늬영원 [Fire Salamander] (in Korean). Moonji. ISBN 9788932023533.
—— (2014).  소년이 온다 [A Boy Comes = Human Acts] (in Korean). Changbi. ISBN 9788936434120.
—— (2016).  흰 [White = The White Book] (in Korean). Nanda. ISBN 9788954640718.
—— (2021).  작별하지 않는다 [We Do Not Part] (in Korean). Munhakdongne. ISBN 9788954682152.


==== In translation ====
—— (2015). The Vegetarian. Translated by Deborah Smith. London: Portobello Books. ISBN 9781846275623. UK
—— (2016). The Vegetarian. Translated by Deborah Smith. London/New York: Hogarth. ISBN 9781101906118.  UK  US
—— (2023). Greek Lessons. Translated by Deborah Smith and Emily Yae Won. London/New York: Hogarth. ISBN 9780593595275. UK  US
—— (2016). Human Acts. Translated by Deborah Smith. London: Portobello Books. ISBN 9781846275968. UK
—— (2017). Human Acts. Translated by Deborah Smith. London/New York: Hogarth. ISBN 9781101906743. UK  US
—— (2017). The White Book. Translated by Deborah Smith. London: Portobello Books. ISBN 9781846276958. UK
—— (2019). The White Book. Translated by Deborah Smith. London/New York: Hogarth. ISBN 9780525573067. UK  US
—— (2025). We Do Not Part. Translated by Emily Yae Won and Paige Aniyah Morris. London/New York: Hogarth. ISBN 9780593595459. UK  US


=== Short story collections ===
내 이름은 태양꽃 ("My name is Sunflower"), Munhakdongne, 2002, ISBN 9788982814792.
붉은 꽃 이야기 ("The red flower story"), Yolimwon, 2003, ISBN 9788970633336.
천둥 꼬마 선녀 번개 꼬마 선녀 ("Thunder little fairy, lightning little fairy"), Munhakdongne, 2007, ISBN 9788954602792.
눈물상자 ("Tear box"), Munhakdongne, 2008, ISBN 9788954605816.


=== Stories ===


=== Poetry collections ===
서랍에 저녁을 넣어 두었다 ("I put dinner in the drawer"), Moonji, 2013, ISBN 9788932024639.


=== Essays ===
사랑과, 사랑을 둘러싼 것들 ("Love and things surrounding love"), Yolimwon, 2003, ISBN 9788970633695.
가만가만 부르는 노래 ("A song to sing calmly"), Bichae, 2007, ISBN 9788992036276.
Light and Thread by Moonji Publishing Co., 2025


== Adaptations ==
Baby Buddha and The Vegetarian have been made into films. Lim Woo-Seong wrote and directed Vegetarian, which was released in 2009. It was one of only 14 selections (out of 1,022 submissions) included in the World Narrative Competition of the North American Film Fest, and was noticed at the Busan International Film Festival.
Lim also adapted Baby Buddha into a screenplay, in collaboration with Han, and directed the film version. Titled Scars, it was released in 2011.


== See also ==
Korean literature
List of Korean novelists
List of Korean-language poets
List of Korean women writers
List of Nobel laureates in Literature


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website
Han Kang on Nobelprize.org 
Kang, Han (28 April 2023). "Han Kang: 'One year I couldn't bear fiction and read astrophysics instead'". The Guardian. Retrieved 23 June 2023.
Zhou, Dennis (30 January 2023). "Han Kang on How Language Misses Its Mark". The New Yorker. Retrieved 23 June 2023.

@@@@@TITLE: Bong Joon Ho@@@@@
Bong Joon Ho (Korean: 봉준호; pronounced [poːŋ tɕuːnho]; born September 14, 1969) is a South Korean filmmaker. His work is characterized by emphasis on social and class themes, genre-mixing, dark comedy, and sudden tone shifts. The recipient of numerous accolades, Bong has won three Academy Awards, two British Academy Film Awards, and five Asian Film Awards. In 2017, he was included on Metacritic's list of the 25 best film directors of the 21st century, and in 2020, he was listed as one of the 100 most influential people in the world by Time and among the Bloomberg 50.
Bong first became known to audiences and gained a cult following with his feature directorial debut, the dark comedy film Barking Dogs Never Bite (2000). He later achieved widespread critical success with his subsequent films: the crime thriller Memories of Murder (2003), the monster film The Host (2006), the science fiction action film Snowpiercer (2013), which served as Bong's English-language debut, and the dark comedy thriller Parasite (2019). The latter three are also among the highest-grossing films in South Korea, with Parasite being the highest-grossing South Korean film in history.
All of Bong's films have been South Korean productions, although Snowpiercer, Okja (2017) and Mickey 17 (2025) are Hollywood co-productions with major use of the English language. Two of his films have screened in competition at the Cannes Film Festival—Okja in 2017 and Parasite in 2019; the latter earned the Palme d'Or, which was a first for a South Korean film. Bong won Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Original Screenplay, making Parasite the first non-English language film to win Best Picture.


== Early life ==
Bong Joon Ho was born on September 14, 1969, in Bongheok-dong, Daegu, South Korea. He has three older siblings. His mother, Park So-young, was a housewife; his father, Bong Sang-gyun, was a graphic designer, industrial designer, professor of art at Yeungnam University, and head of the art department at the National Film Institute. His father retired from Seoul Institute of Technology as a professor of design in 2007 and died in 2017. Bong's maternal grandfather, Park Taewon, was an esteemed author during the Japanese colonial period, best known for his work A Day in the Life of Kubo the Novelist and his defection to North Korea in 1950. His older brother, Bong Joon-soo, is an English professor at the Seoul National University; his older sister, Bong Ji-hee, teaches fashion styling at Anyang University. Bong Joon Ho was raised as a Catholic, and his Christian name is Michael.
While Bong was in elementary school, the family relocated to Seoul, taking up residence in Jamsil-dong by the Han River. He later attended Jamsil High School, and lived in an apartment near the Jamsil Bridge at that time. One day, while at the apartment preparing for his college entrance exam during his third year at the high school (in 1987), Bong was reportedly startled by seeing out the window what he believed to be a monster crawling up a pillar of the Jamsil Bridge and then falling into the Han River. He was already desiring to become a film director at that point in time and vowed to make a movie about a large creature living around the river someday. 19 years later, he fulfilled his dream when his monster movie The Host (2006) was released.
In 1988, Bong enrolled in Yonsei University, majoring in sociology. He also studied the English language while in college, and he credits Spike Lee's films with teaching him English profanity. College campuses such as Yonsei's were then hotbeds for the South Korean democracy movement; Bong was an active participant of student demonstrations, frequently subjected to tear gas early in his college years. He served a two-year term in the military in accordance with South Korea's compulsory military service before returning to college in 1992. Bong later co-founded a film club named "Yellow Door" with students from neighboring universities. As a member of the club, Bong made his first films, including a stop motion short titled Looking for Paradise and 16 mm film short titled Baeksaekin (White Man). He graduated from Yonsei University in 1995.


== Career ==


=== 1994–2005: Early work and feature debut ===
After graduating from university, Bong enrolled in the two-year program at the Korean Academy of Film Arts. While there, he made many 16 mm short films. His graduation films, Incoherence and Memories in My Frame, were invited to screen at the Hong Kong International Film Festival and Vancouver International Film Festival. Bong also collaborated on several works with his classmates, which included working as cinematographer on the highly acclaimed short 2001 Imagine (1994), directed by his friend Jang Joon-hwan. Aside from cinematography, Bong was also a lighting technician on two shorts—The Love of a Grape Seed and Sounds From Heaven and Earth—in 1994. He was credited as a screenwriter on the anthology film Seven Reasons Why Beer is Better Than a Lover (1996); both screenplay and assistant director credits on Park Ki-yong's debut Motel Cactus (1997); and is one of four writers (along with Jang Joon-hwan) credited for the screenplay of Phantom: The Submarine (1999).
In 1999, Bong began shooting his first feature Barking Dogs Never Bite (released in 2000) under producer Cha Seung-jae, who had overseen the production of both Motel Cactus and Phantom: The Submarine. The film, about a low-ranking university lecturer who abducts a neighbor's dog, was shot in the same apartment complex where Bong lived after his marriage. At the time of its release in February 2000, it received little commercial interest but some positive critical reviews. It was invited to the competition section of Spain's San Sebastián International Film Festival, and won awards at the Slamdance Film Festival and Hong Kong International Film Festival. Slowly building international word of mouth also helped the film financially; over two years after its local release, the film reached its financial break-even point due to sales to overseas territories.
Bong's second film, Memories of Murder (2003), a much larger project, was adapted from a stage play centered on a real-life serial killer who terrorized a rural town in the 1980s. Production of the film was a difficult process (the film set a local record for the number of locations it used). It was released in April 2003 and proved a critical and popular success. Word of mouth drove the film to sell over five million tickets (rescuing Cha Seung-jae's production company Sidus from near-bankruptcy), and a string of national honors followed, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor (for Song Kang-Ho) and Best Lighting prizes at the Grand Bell Awards in 2003. Although passed over by the Cannes Film Festival and Venice Film Festival, the film eventually received its international premiere, again at the San Sebastián International Film Festival, where it picked up three awards including Best Director. The film also received an unusually strong critical reception on its release in foreign territories, such as France and the U.S.
Following this, Bong took some time to contribute short films to two anthology film projects. Influenza (2004) is a 30-minute work acted out entirely in front of real CCTV cameras stationed throughout Seoul. The film, which charts a desperate man's turn to violent crime over the space of five years, was commissioned by the Jeonju International Film Festival, together with works by Japanese director Sogo Ishii and Hong Kong-based Yu Lik-wai. Twentidentity, meanwhile, is a 20-part anthology film made by alumni of the Korean Academy of Film Arts, on the occasion of the school's 20th anniversary. Bong's contribution is Sink & Rise (2003), a work set alongside the Han River.


=== 2006–2012: International success ===

The Host (2006) marked a step up in scale in Bong's career, and for the Korean film industry as a whole. The big-budget ($11 million) work centered on a fictional monster that rises up out of the Han River to wreak havoc on the people of Seoul—and on one family in particular. Featuring many of the actors who had appeared in his previous films, the film was the focus of strong audience interest even before it started shooting, but there were many doubts raised about whether a Korean production could rise to the challenge of creating a full-fledged, believable digital monster. After initially contacting New Zealand's Weta Digital—the company responsible for the CGI in The Lord of the Rings—scheduling conflicts led Bong to San Francisco-based The Orphanage, who took on the majority of the effects work. After rushing to meet deadlines, the film received a rapturous premiere in the Directors' Fortnight section of the 2006 Cannes Film Festival. Although local audiences were slightly more critical of The Host than attendees at Cannes, the film was nonetheless a major summer hit. With theater owners calling for more and more prints, the film enjoyed South Korea's widest release ever (on over a third of the nation's 1,800 screens) and set a new box office record with 13 million tickets sold. The Host was bought by US studio Universal for the remake rights. The administrations of Lee Myung-bak and Park Geun-hye later deemed The Host promoted leftist viewpoints, and included Bong on a leftist blacklist.
Bong, along with French film directors Michel Gondry and Leos Carax, directed a segment of Tokyo! (2008), a triptych feature telling three separate tales of the city. Bong's segment is about a man who has lived for a decade as a Hikikomori—the term used in Japan for people unable to adjust to society who do not leave their homes—and what happens when he falls in love with a pizza delivery girl. Bong's fourth feature film Mother (2009) is the story of a doting mother who struggles to save her disabled son from a murder accusation. It premiered in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2009 Cannes Film Festival to much acclaim, particularly for actress Kim Hye-ja; she went on to win the Los Angeles Film Critics Association Award for Best Actress. Mother repeated its critical success nationally and in the international film festival circuit. The film appeared on many film critics' "best-of" lists of 2010. In 2011, Bong contributed to 3.11 A Sense of Home Films, another anthology film, addressing the theme of home. The films were made by 21 filmmakers in response to the devastating earthquake and tsunami which hit the Tohoku region of Japan on March 11, 2011. The film screened on the first anniversary of the disaster. In Bong's short film Iki, a teenage girl finds a toddler, seemingly dead, on a beach. That same year, Bong served as a jury member for the 27th Sundance Film Festival. He was also the head of the jury for the Caméra d'Or section of the 2011 Cannes Film Festival and 2013 Edinburgh International Film Festival.


=== 2013–2018: American co-productions ===

Bong's first English-language film, Snowpiercer, was released in 2013. It is based on the graphic novel Le Transperceneige (1982) by Jacques Lob and Jean-Marc Rochette, and set largely on a futuristic train where those on board are separated according to their social status. The film premiered at Times Square on July 29, 2013, in Seoul, South Korea, before screening at the Deauville American Film Festival as the closing film on September 7, 2013, the Berlin International Film Festival as part of Berlin's Forum Sidebar on February 7, 2014, opening the LA Film Festival on June 11, 2014, and the Edinburgh International Film Festival on June 22, 2014. Upon release in cinemas, Snowpiercer was met with near-universal praise and strong ticket sales, both in South Korea and abroad. On the film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 94% based on 253 reviews, with a weighted average of 8.10/10. The site's critical consensus reads: "Snowpiercer offers an audaciously ambitious action spectacular for filmgoers numb to effects-driven blockbusters." On Metacritic, the film has a score of 84 out of 100, based on 38 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". As of April 2014, it is the tenth highest-grossing domestic film in South Korea, with 9,350,141 admissions. The film also holds the domestic record for the fastest movie (domestic and foreign) to reach four million admissions, which it achieved in its fifth day after the premiere, and another record for the highest weekend figure (from Friday to Sunday) for a Korean film, with 2.26 million viewers. In addition to receiving several awards and nominations, Snowpiercer appeared on several critics' lists of the ten best films of 2014.

In 2015, Bong's next film, Okja, was announced. On April 30, 2015, screenwriter Jon Ronson announced on his Twitter account that he was writing the second draft of Bong's screenplay for the film. Darius Khondji joined the film as cinematographer in February 2016. Filming for the project began in April 2016. It premiered at the 2017 Cannes Film Festival, where it competed for the Palme d'Or and sparked controversy due to it being produced by Netflix. The film was met with boos, mixed with applause, during a press screening at the film festival, once the Netflix logo appeared on screen and again during a technical glitch; the film was projected in the incorrect aspect ratio for its first seven minutes. The festival later issued an apology to the filmmakers. However, despite the studio's negative response, the film itself received a four-minute standing ovation following its actual premiere. The film was later released on Netflix on June 28, 2017, and received positive reviews. On the film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 86% based on 235 reviews, with a weighted average of 7.54/10. The site's critical consensus reads: "Okja sees Bong Joon Ho continuing to create defiantly eclectic entertainment – and still hitting more than enough of his narrative targets in the midst of a tricky tonal juggling act." On Metacritic, the film has a score of 75 out of 100, based on 36 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". New York Times critic A. O. Scott wrote: "Okja is a miracle of imagination and technique, and Okja insists, with abundant mischief and absolute sincerity, that she possesses a soul."


=== 2019–present: Parasite and Mickey 17 ===

In 2019, Bong directed the South Korean film Parasite, a dark comedy thriller about a poor family that infiltrates a wealthy household by gaining employment as unrelated staff members. The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival, where it won the Palme d'Or, becoming the first Korean film to receive the award and the first film to do so with a unanimous vote since Blue Is the Warmest Colour at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival. On June 16, 2019, the film won the $60,000 Sydney Film Prize at the Sydney Film Festival where it was in competition alongside 11 features from countries such as North Macedonia, Brazil and Spain, and Australian entrants Mirrah Foulkes (for Judy and Punch) and Ben Lawrence (for Hearts and Bones).
Parasite was released in South Korea by CJ Entertainment on May 30, 2019, and in the United States by Neon on October 11, 2019. It received unanimous critical acclaim and earned $266 million at the worldwide box office, becoming Bong's highest-grossing release. On the film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 99% based on 451 reviews, with a weighted average of 9.37/10. The site's critical consensus reads: "An urgent, brilliantly layered look at timely social themes, Parasite finds writer-director Bong Joon Ho in near-total command of his craft." On Metacritic, the film has a score of 97 out of 100, based on 56 critics, indicating "universal acclaim". Regarding motivation of the film's creation, Bong hoped that he would live a comfortable life, however he was disappointed several times in reality. He wanted to express the anxiety, sadness, and deep fear that came from reality of life via his film.

Throughout the 2019–2020 film awards season, Bong and the film received numerous accolades. Bong received the Hollywood Filmmaker Award at the 23rd Hollywood Film Awards and Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Director (tied with Sam Mendes for 1917) at the 25th Critics' Choice Awards. He was also nominated for Best Director and Best Screenplay (shared with Han Jin-won) at the 77th Golden Globe Awards, with the film itself winning Best Foreign Language Film. This was the first Golden Globe Award nomination (and win) for any South Korean film. Parasite also became the first non-English-language film to win the top prize at the 70th American Cinema Editors Eddie Awards when film editor Yang Jin-mo won Best Edited Feature Film – Dramatic. At the 26th Screen Actors Guild Awards, the cast of Parasite won the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture, making history as the first foreign-language film to win in the category. At the 73rd British Academy Film Awards, Parasite was nominated in four categories, winning two awards—Best Original Screenplay and Best Film Not in the English Language.
Parasite was later submitted as the South Korean entry for Best International Feature Film for the 92nd Academy Awards, making the December shortlist. It eventually became the first South Korean film to receive an Academy Award nomination in any category, receiving a total of six nominations and winning four awards—Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and Best International Feature Film. This was also the first time a non-English language film won the Academy Award for Best Picture and the first time Asian writers won Academy Awards for screenwriting. While accepting the Academy Award for Best Director, Bong expressed his deep respect and appreciation for fellow nominees Martin Scorsese, who inspired his work, and Quentin Tarantino, who supported and praised his earlier films. He also mentioned a quote from Scorsese—"The most personal is the most creative"—that also inspired him, which prompted the audience to give Scorsese an enthusiastic standing ovation. Scorsese later wrote and sent a heartfelt letter to Bong after Parasite's Oscar success. Parasite's Best Picture win was well received by film critics, who hailed it as a major step forward for popular appreciation of international film and for restoring the legitimacy of the Academy. "The academy gave best picture to the actual best picture", wrote Justin Chang of the Los Angeles Times, who continued that the film awards body was "startled ... into recognizing that no country's cinema has a monopoly on greatness". Conversely, U.S. president Donald Trump lambasted Parasite's win at a campaign rally in Colorado on February 20, 2020, questioning why a foreign film won Best Picture. Distribution company Neon responded by tweeting: "Understandable, he can't read."

In January 2020, an HBO six-hour limited series based on the film, with Bong and Adam McKay serving as executive producers, currently in early development, was announced as an upcoming project. Bong has stated that the series, also titled Parasite, will explore stories "that happen in between the sequences in the film". In February 2020, Mark Ruffalo was rumored to star while Tilda Swinton was confirmed to being cast as the female lead. Swinton left the project in October 2022 and Bong confirmed in February 2025 that the series was still in development.
In September 2021, Bong served as jury president of the 78th Venice International Film Festival. In January 2022, it was revealed Bong's next film would be Mickey 17, an adaptation of Edward Ashton's novel Mickey7. Bong was given an advance manuscript of the novel in late 2021. The film, which was written, co-produced and directed by Bong, is being distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures and stars Robert Pattinson, Bong's first collaborations with both. In May 2022, Naomi Ackie, Toni Collette, and Mark Ruffalo joined the cast and the film entered into pre-production at Warner Bros. Studios, Leavesden. In July 2022, Steven Yeun joined the cast. Production commenced on August 1, 2022. Mickey 17 premiered at the 75th Berlin International Film Festival on February 15, 2025, before being theatrically released by Warner Bros. Pictures in South Korea on February 28, and in the United States on March 7, 2025.


==== Upcoming projects ====

In February 2021, Bong said that he had been working on two scripts after completing Parasite, one in English and one in Korean, and that he had finished one of the two. He said that the Korean film "is located in Seoul and has unique elements of horror and action" and that the English film is "a drama film based on a true event that happened in 2016." Bong is working on a Korean animated film, currently titled The Valley, as one of his next projects. The animated film was conceived in 2018 and is said to be about deep-sea creatures and humans. In 2024, Bong confirmed that the animated film about deep-sea creatures and his Seoul horror film were still in development, and he also expressed interest in making a biographical film about a historical figure, being inspired by the recent film Harbin.


== Inspirations and style ==
As a child, Bong watched Black Orpheus (1959) on Korean television, which made a big impact on him. While he was in film school, Bong watched the Qatsi trilogy (1982–2002). His main inspirations are from Guillermo del Toro—his favorite films of del Toro's are The Devil's Backbone (2001) and Pan's Labyrinth (2006)—and Nagisa Ōshima, describing Oshima as "one of the most controversial masters". Bong also studied the films of Martin Scorsese and cited him as one of his major influences during his acceptance speech for the Academy Award for Best Director when he won for Parasite (2019). Bong called manga artist Naoki Urasawa "the greatest storyteller of our time" and cited his stories and the way he develops scenes as an influence.
The most defining trademark of Bong's films are their sudden tone shifts (sometimes within scenes) between drama, darkness, and black or slapstick humor. During a TIFF Master Class at the 2017 Toronto International Film Festival, Bong claimed: "I'm never really conscious of the tone shifts or the comedy that I apply, I never think 'oh, the tone shifts at this point or it's funny at this point.' I'm never conscious of it during the filmmaking or screenwriting process." Bong also uses real filming locations or specially built sets in all his films as opposed to green screens, even to the extent of filming in Seoul's sewers for The Host (2006); Memories of Murder (2003) set a local record for the number of locations it used. His process when working with actors is to make them feel comfortable and gives them a high amount of freedom when performing, even allowing them to improvise. Bong has commented that he doesn't like the term 'Directing Actors' as he feels that "acting is the actor's job and it's something I don't feel like I can direct".
In an interview promoting Snowpiercer (2013), actor Ed Harris described Bong's shooting process as "cutting while filming". Harris also said that "if I was doing a scene and it was a couple of pages long, he would never shoot the whole thing one way. He'd shoot a few lines, like the first beat of the scene, and then he would turn the camera around and get my part for that part of the scene. Then he would change the angle a little bit". He additionally noted that "the editor was sitting right there on the stage, right below the set with a big tent, actually getting the footage as they were filming. Fellow actor Daniel Henshall echoed Harris's sentiment calling Bong "precise" and "very sure of what he wants". Henshall continued by saying: "He only shoots what he's going to use in the edit. Doesn't do any coverage. I've never worked like that before. You're trimming the fat before you've shot it, which is very brave, because when you get into the edit, if something's missing you haven't got it. He's been planning it for four years that meticulously."
In 2015, Bong's list of 50 inspirational films was published on the French streaming platform LaCinetek. His list includes three works by Martin Scorsese (Mean Streets, Raging Bull, Goodfellas) and two films each by Nagisa Ōshima, Shōhei Imamura, Kim Ki-young, Alfred Hitchcock, François Truffaut, Federico Fellini, John Carpenter, David Lynch, Akira Kurosawa and Stanley Kubrick.


== Personal life ==
Bong married screenwriter Jung Sun-young in 1995. They have a son together, Bong Hyo-min, who is also a filmmaker. In 2009, Bong had a tattoo of a bird done on his left arm to celebrate the release of Mother, and pay homage to a scene in the film.
Bong was a member and supporter of the now-defunct Democratic Labor Party during the 2000s, reportedly starting in June 2003. He left the Democratic Labor Party in March 2008 and joined its successor, the New Progressive Party, the following month. He later voted for the latter party in the 2012 South Korean presidential election. On December 7, 2024, he was among approximately 2,520 employees of the South Korean film industry who called for a successful impeachment and arrest of President Yoon Suk Yeol due to his declaration of martial law during the 2024 South Korean martial law crisis.


== Filmography ==


== Recurring collaborators ==


== Awards and nominations ==


== See also ==
Cinema of Korea


== References ==


== External links ==

Bong Joon Ho at IMDb 
Bong Joon Ho at the Korean Movie Database

@@@@@TITLE: Pachinko@@@@@
Pachinko (Japanese: パチンコ; pronounced [patɕiŋko]) is a mechanical game originating in Japan that is used as an arcade game and, much more frequently, for gambling. Pachinko fills a niche in Japanese gambling comparable to that of the slot machine in the Western world as a form of low-stakes, low-strategy gambling.
Pachinko parlors are widespread in Japan, and usually also feature a number of slot machines (called pachislo or pachislots); these venues look and operate similarly to casinos. Modern pachinko machines have both mechanical and electrical components.
Gambling for cash is illegal de jure in Japan, but the widespread popularity of low-stakes pachinko in Japanese society has enabled a specific legal loophole allowing it to exist. Pachinko balls won from games cannot be exchanged directly for money in the parlor, nor can they be removed from the premises or exchanged with other parlors. However, they can be legally traded to the parlor for so-called "special prize" tokens (tokushu keihin (特殊景品)), which can in turn be "sold" for cash to a separate vendor off-premises. These vendors (ostensibly independent from, but often owned by, the parlor owner) then sell the tokens back to the parlor at the same price paid for them—plus a small commission, creating a cash profit—without technically violating the law.‍
By 1994, the pachinko market in Japan was valued at ¥30 trillion‍ (nearly US$300 billion; equivalent to $570 billion in 2024‍). In 1999, sales and revenue from pachinko parlors contributed 5.6% of Japan's ¥500 trillion GDP, and they employed over 330,000 people, 0.52% of all those employed in Japan.‍ However, the sales amount of these pachinko parlors is calculated based on the total amount that customers rented pachinko balls from pachinko parlors. It is said that on average, about 85% of the money spent by customers in pachinko parlors is returned to the customers, so the sales of pachinko parlors are said to be about 15% of the statistical amount.‍ As of 2015, Japan's pachinko market generated more gambling revenue than that of Macau, Las Vegas, and Singapore combined.‍ Pachinko gambling's grey-market nature and tremendous profit historically resulted in considerable infiltration by yakuza, who used it as a vehicle for money laundering and racketeering. 
Since the 1990s, however, this has been less of an issue due to police crackdowns.‍ There were over 7 million pachinkos around the world in 2018 with more than half of them being in Japan.‍ In recent years, the pachinko market (the total amount of pachinko balls rented by customers from pachinko parlors) and the number of pachinko parlors in Japan have both continued to decline. The market size in 2022 was ¥14.6 trillion, less than half of the ¥35 trillion in 2005 when the market was at its peak, and the number of pachinko parlors in 2022 was 7,665, less than half of the 18,244 in 1997, when the number of parlors was at its peak.‍ 
Following a number of years of decline of parlours and machines, the number of pachinko machines in Japan dropped to around 2.5 million by the end of 2019.‍


== Description ==
A pachinko machine resembles a vertical pinball machine, but is different from Western pinball in several ways. It uses small (11-millimetre (2⁄5 in) diameter) steel balls, which the owner (usually a "pachinko parlor", featuring many individual games in rows) rents to the player, while pinball games use a larger, captive ball.  
The player loads one or more balls into the machine, then presses and releases a spring-loaded handle, which is attached to a padded hammer inside the machine, launching the ball(s) into a metal track. The track guides the ball over the top of the playing field; then when it loses momentum, it falls into the playing field.
The playing field is populated by numerous brass pins, several small cups into which the player hopes the ball will fall (each catcher is barely the width of the ball), and a hole at the bottom into which the ball falls if it does not enter a catcher. The ball bounces from pin to pin, both slowing its descent and deflecting it laterally across the field. A ball that enters a catcher triggers a payout, in which a number of balls are dropped into a tray at the front of the machine.‍
Many games made since the 1960s feature "tulip" catchers, which have small flippers that open to expand the width of the catcher. They are controlled by the machine, and may open and close randomly or in a pattern; expert players try to launch a ball so it reaches the catcher when its flippers are open.‍ 
The game's object is to win as many balls as possible, which can be exchanged for prizes. Pachinko machines were originally strictly mechanical, but have since incorporated extensive electronics, becoming similar to video slot machines. Another type of machine often found in pachinko parlors, called a "pachislot", does not involve steel balls, but are loaded with tokens or coins and trigger reels comparable to those of a traditional slot machine. Online casinos also offer "pachislot" games to tailor their product to the Japanese market.


== History ==
Pachinko machines were first built during the 1920s as a children's toy called the "Corinth game" (コリントゲーム, korinto gēmu), based on and named after the American "Corinthian bagatelle".‍ It emerged as an adult pastime in Nagoya around 1930, and spread from there.‍
All of Japan's pachinko parlors were closed down during World War II but re-emerged in the late 1940s. Pachinko has remained popular since; the first commercial parlor was opened in Nagoya in 1948.‍ Due to Japanese influence during its 50-year occupation, Taiwan has many pachinko establishments.‍ 
Guam also hosts a pachinko parlor.‍
An estimated 80 percent of pachinko parlors in Japan are owned by ethnic Koreans.‍ In 2001, British company BS Group bought a stake in Tokyo Plaza, which was running almost 20 parlors in Japan, and had also looked into opening parlors in the United Kingdom.‍
Until the 1980s, pachinko machines were mechanical devices,‍ using bells to indicate different states of the machine. Electricity was used only to flash lights and to indicate problems, such as a machine emptied of its balls.‍ Balls were launched using a flipper; their speed was controlled by pulling the flipper down to different levels. Manufacturers in this period included Nishijin and Sankyo; most of these machines available on online auction sites today date to the 1970s.‍ After that time, pachinko machines incorporated more electronic features, thus requiring electricity for operation.


== Mechanisms ==

To play pachinko, players get a number of metal balls by inserting cash or cards directly into the machine they want to use. They then shoot the balls into the machine. Older pachinko machines use a spring-loaded lever for shooting balls individually; while later ones use a round knob, controlling the strength of a mechanically-fired plunger that shoots the balls. The balls fall vertically through an array of pins, levers, cups, traps and obstacles until they enter a payoff target or reach the bottom of the playfield.
The player has a chance to get more balls if a launched ball lands in one of certain places as it falls. More balls allow the player to remain in the game longer, creating a larger chance to win.‍ 
Newer "pachislot" machines have a digital slot machine display on a large screen, where the objective is to get three numbers or symbols in a row for a jackpot.‍
Every ball that goes into the center gate results in one spin, but there is a limit on the number of spins at one time because of the possibility of balls passing through the center gate while a spin is still in progress. Each spin pays out a small number of balls, but the objective is to hit the jackpot.


=== Design ===
Pachinko machines vary in several aspects—including decorative mechanics, sound, gimmicks, modes, and gates. The playing field is usually a wooden board with a transparent acrylic overlay containing artwork. Most modern machines have an LCD screen over the main start pocket. The game is played by keeping the stream of balls to the left of the screen, but many models have their optimized ball stream. Vintage machines vary in pocket location and strategy, with most having a specific center area containing win pockets.


=== Payout mode ===

If the first two numbers, letters, or symbols of the spin match up, the digital program will display many animations before the third reel stops spinning, to give the player an added excitement. This is called a "reach" (or rīchi) and sometimes longer animations are played, called "super reaches". Pachinko machines offer different odds in hitting a jackpot; if the player manages to obtain a jackpot, the machine will enter into "payout mode".
The payout mode lasts for a number of rounds. During each round, amidst more animations and movies playing on the center screen, a large payout gate opens up at the bottom of the machine layout and the player must try to shoot balls into it. Each ball that successfully enters into this gate results in many balls being dropped into a separate tray at the bottom of the machine, which can then be placed into a ball bucket.


=== Hidden modes, hints, and instant wins ===
To enhance gameplay, modern machines have integrated several aspects not possible in vintage machines. A common one is the ability to switch between different play modes, including rare and hidden modes that can differ significantly from normal play. Two examples can be seen in the Neon Genesis Evangelion series of pachinko machines, which include "Mission Mode" and "Berserker Mode", ranging from having little effect on winning to being an almost-guaranteed win.‍‍
Graphics in videos and light patterns can also give players a general idea of what these winning odds are. For example, a "super reach" may cause a change in animation, or show an introductory animation or picture. This adds excitement, with some changes having much more significance than others in terms of odds of winning on a given spin. Some machines feature instant wins. There are also second-chance wins, where a spin that appears to have lost, or to have a very low winning chance, gives the player three matching numbers and starts "fever mode".‍


=== Post-payout systems ===
After the payout mode has ended, the pachinko machine may do one of two things. Most pachinko machines employ the kakuhen (確変) system (short for kakuritsu hendō (確率変動; 'probability change')), where some percentage of the possible jackpots on the digital slot machine result in the odds of hitting the next jackpot multiplying by a large amount, followed by another spin regardless of the outcome. The probability of a kakuhen occurring is determined by a random number generator. 
Hence, under this system, it is possible for a player to get a string of consecutive jackpots after the first "hard-earned" one, commonly referred to as "fever mode". Another type of kakuhen system is a "special time" or "ST" kakuhen. With these machines, every jackpot earned results in a kakuhen, but in order to earn a payout beyond the first jackpot, the player must hit a certain set of odds within a given number of spins.
When a jackpot does not result in a kakuhen combination, the pachinko machine will enter into jitan (時短) (short for jikan tanshuku (時間短縮; 'time-reduction')) mode, with a much larger number of spins than kakuhen. Under the original payout odds, the center gate widens to make it considerably easier for balls to fall into it; this system is also present in kakuhen. 
To compensate for the increase in the number of spins, the digital slot machine reveals the final outcome of each spin sooner. ST pachinko machines do not offer this mode; after it ends, the machine spins as in kakuhen. Once no more jackpots have been made, the pachinko machine reverts to its original setting.


=== Koatari ===
Starting in 2007, the majority of Japanese pachinko machines started to include koatari (小当たり; 'small jackpot') into their payout systems. Koatari is shorter than the normal jackpot and during payout mode the payout gate opens for a short time only, even if no balls go into it. The timing of the opening of the gates is unpredictable, effectively making it a jackpot where the player receives no payout. Koatari jackpots can result in a kakuhen as per normal operation, depending on the payout scheme of the machine in question. The main purpose of koatari is so that pachinko manufacturers can offer payout schemes that appear to be largely favorable to customers, without losing any long-term profit.
In addition to being able to offer higher kakuhen percentages, this made it possible for manufacturers to design "battle-type" machines. Unlike old-fashioned pachinko machines that offer a full payout or a kakuhen for any type of jackpot earned, these machines require players to hit a kakuhen jackpot with a certain probability in order to get a full payout. This is orchestrated by the player entering into "battle", where the player, in accordance with the item that the machine is based on, must "defeat" a certain enemy or foe in order to earn another kakuhen. If the player loses, it means that a normal koatari has been hit and the machine enters into jitan mode.
Another reason for incorporating every koatari is that they have made it possible for a machine to go into kakuhen mode without the player's knowledge. This is referred to as senpuku (潜伏; 'hidden') kakuhen because it does not occur in any of the jackpot modes. A player sitting at a used pachinko machine offering the 1 in x chance of hitting a jackpot in normal mode can hit it within x spins easily because the previous player did not realize that the machine was in senpuku. This induces players to keep playing their machines, even though they may still be in normal mode. Japanese pachinko players have not shown significant signs of protest in response to the incorporation of koatari; on the contrary, battle-type pachinko machines have become a major part of most parlors.


== Prizes ==

Winnings take the form of additional balls, which players may either use to keep playing or exchange for prizes (keihin (景品)). When players wish to exchange their winnings, they must call a parlor staff member by using a call button located at the top of their station. The staff member will then carry the player's balls to an automated counter to see how many balls they have.‍
After recording the number of balls the player won and the number of the machine they used, the staff member will then give the player a voucher or card with the number of balls stored in it. Some modern machines can count the balls automatically, without the need for staff. The player then hands it in at the parlor's exchange center to get their prizes. Among the array of prizes available, there will invariably be an item known as the "special prize" (tokushu keihin (特殊景品), typically a small silver or gold novelty item encased in plastic) that can be sold for cash at an outside establishment in the vicinity of the parlor.‍
Special prizes are awarded to the player in amounts corresponding to the number of balls won. For example, one special prize worth ¥1500 outside the parlor might be offered to a customer per 400 balls won, assuming each ball originally cost 4 yen. The vast majority of players opt for the maximum number of special prizes offered for their ball total, selecting other prizes only when they have a remaining total too small to receive a special prize.‍
Besides the special prizes, prizes may be as simple as chocolate bars, pens or cigarette lighters, or as complicated as electronics, bicycles and other items. Under Japanese law, cash cannot be paid out directly for pachinko balls, but there is usually a small establishment located nearby, separate from the game parlor but sometimes in a separate unit as part of the same building, where players may sell special prizes for cash. This is tolerated by the police because the pachinko parlors that pay out goods and special prizes are nominally independent from the shops that buy back the special prizes.‍ 
Some pachinko parlors may even give out vouchers for groceries at a nearby supermarket.  The yakuza (organized crime) were formerly often involved in prize exchange, but a great deal of police effort beginning in the 1960s and ramping up in the 1990s has largely done away with their influence.‍ In Tokyo, the special prize exchange is handled exclusively by the Tokyo Union Circulation company (known as TUC), which sells pachinko and slot parlors gold slivers in standardized plastic cases, which it buys back from winning customers at its "TUC Shop" windows.‍
The "three-shop system"‍ is a system employed by pachinko parlors to exchange for keihin (prizes), usually with items such as cigarette lighters or ball-point pens. These items are carried to a nearby shop and exchanged for cash as a way of circumventing gambling laws.


== Recreational pachinko ==

Many arcades in Japan feature pachinko models from different times. They offer more playing time for the same amount of money, and have balls that can be exchanged only for game tokens to play other games in the establishment. As many of these arcades are smoke-free and gambling is removed, they are popular venues for casual players, newcomers, children, and those wanting to play in a more relaxed atmosphere. 
In such arcades, thrifty gamblers may spend a small amount on a newly-released pachinko model to get a feel for the machine before going to a real parlor. These machines can also be found in many stores, where they pay out capsules containing a prize coupon or store credit.


== Regulations ==


=== Smoking ===
Smoking is allowed in pachinko parlors, although there are discussions in Japan to extend public smoking bans to them.‍


=== Crime ===

Gambling is illegal in Japan, but pachinko is regarded as an exception and treated as an amusement activity.‍ Although awarding direct money prizes for it is illegal, parlors may reward players with tokens which can then be sold for cash at nearby exchange centers. With growing public and political pressure in recent years, since passage of Japan's blanket anti-gambling law in the 1990s, police are more active in regulating parlors.‍ 
Retired police officers often work in the pachinko industry; critics have pointed out that while this has had a deterrent effect against organized crime, it also means these operators are in a strong position to influence police officers in their favor.‍
Police tolerate the level of gambling in pachinko parlors. For example, in May 2005, a parlor in Kanagawa Prefecture reported to the local police that someone had counterfeited their tokens and made off with the equivalent of US$60,000 in cash by trading them in at their nearby exchange center. Even with such information proving that this parlor was illegally operating an exchange center, which by law must be independent of the parlor, the police did not shut them down, but tracked down the thief.‍


=== Ball designs ===
It is forbidden for pachinko balls to be removed from a parlor to be used elsewhere. To help prevent this, many parlors have a design or name engraved on each of their balls, inspiring some people to collect pachinko balls with various designs.


== Addiction ==

A 2014 study showed that pathological gambling among Japanese adults was 9.04% in men and 1.6% in women, higher than the North American prevalence of 1.6%, particularly for men.‍ In 1999, 29% of players thought of themselves as addicted and needing treatment. Another 30% said they exceeded their budgets and borrowed money to play.‍


== Franchising ==
A number of media franchises, mainly the media mix—including Japanese film, anime, manga, television and video game franchises—have generated significant revenue from sales of licensed pachinko and pachislot machines to pachinko parlors and amusement arcades.‍ Sega Sammy Holdings and Konami are two major license holders for most media mix pachinko machines.‍
Some original pachinko games were adapted into anime: examples include Bakumatsu Gijinden Roman, Battle Girls: Time Paradox!, Rio: Rainbow Gate!, and Yoshimune.


== See also ==
Bean machine – Device invented by Francis GaltonPages displaying short descriptions of redirect targets
Galton board – Device invented by Francis Galton
Payazzo
Pachinko allocation – Statistical tool
Plinko, a game similar to pachinko, featured on the American game show The Price Is Right
Visual Pinball, a software game engine for creating computer game simulations of pachinko and pinball machines
The Wall, an American game show, features a four-story-high pegboard wall similar to Plinko and Pachinko


== References ==


== External links ==

History of Pachinko Archived 13 January 2019 at the Wayback Machine
