"Text"
title,text K-pop,K-pop Korean: 케이팝; RR: Keipap; an abbreviation of Korean popular music is a form of popular music originating in South Korea. The music genre that the term is used to refer to colloquially emerged in the 1990s as a form of youth subculture, with Korean musicians taking influence from Western dance music, hip-hop, R&B and rock. Today, K-pop commonly refers to the musical output of teen idol acts, chiefly girl groups and boy bands, who emphasize visual appeal and performance. As a pop genre, K-pop is characterized by its melodic quality and cultural hybridity. K-pop can trace its origins to rap dance, a fusion of hip-hop, techno and rock popularized by the group Seo Taiji and Boys, whose experimentation helped to modernize South Korea's contemporary music scene in the early 1990s. Their popularity with teenagers incentivized the music industry to focus on this demographic, with Lee Soo-man of SM Entertainment developing the Korean idol system in the late 1990s and creating acts like H.O.T. and S.E.S., which marked the first generation of K-pop. By the early 2000s, TVXQ and BoA achieved success in Japan and gained traction for the genre overseas. As a component of the Korean Wave, the international popularity of K-pop by the 2010s can be attributed to the rise of social media. In 2019, South Korea ranked sixth among the top ten music markets worldwide, with artists BTS and Blackpink leading the growth. 2020 was a record-breaking year for South Korea when it experienced a 44.8% growth and became the fastest-growing major market of the year. Despite heavy influence from American pop music, some have argued that K-pop maintains a distinctness in mood and energy. The Koreanness of K-pop has been debated in recent years, with an increasing share of Western songwriters, non-Korean artists, songs in English and marketing for a global audience. Some authors have theorized K-pop as a new kind of transnational culture with global dissemination.  K-pop is known for its tight managerial control. It has been criticized for its commercialism and treatment of artists. The industry is dominated by four major companies—SM, YG, JYP and Hybe. In the 2020s, the genre has been marked by greater artist autonomy and companies localizing their production methods overseas; groups like JO1 and Katseye have resulted from this globalization.    Etymology  The term K-pop is the South Korean equivalent of the Japanese J-pop, The first known use of the term occurred in Billboard in the October 9, 1999 edition at the end of an article titled S. Korea To Allow Some Japanese Live Acts by Cho Hyun-jin, then a South Korea correspondent for the magazine, which used it as a broad term for South Korean pop music. Cho himself, however, is not sure if he coined the term, since some articles stated that the word 'K-pop' was already being used by music industry insiders, even though he had never heard it personally. The term K-pop became popular in the 2000s, especially in an international context. In South Korea, domestic pop music is referred to as gayo 가요, which is still widely used within the country. In 2022, the Korean Music Awards established a separate genre-specific field for K-pop, defining its distinct aesthetic tendencies as dance-pop music originating from the Korean idol system with a focus on performance.    Characteristics     Audiovisual content  Although K-pop generally refers to South Korean popular music and the associated industry, some consider it to be an all-encompassing genre exhibiting a wide spectrum of musical and visual elements. The French Institut national de l'audiovisuel defines K-pop as a fusion of synthesized music, sharp dance routines and fashionable, colorful outfits. Songs typically consist of one or a mixture of pop, rock, hip hop, R&B, and electronic music genres.    Idol trainee   The mainstream method is to become an idol tr
ainee through agency auditions, online auditions, or street casting. South Korean management agencies offer binding contracts to potential artists, sometimes at a young age. Trainees live together in a regulated environment and spend many hours a day learning how to sing, dance, speak foreign languages, and gain other skills in preparation for their debut. This robotic system of training is often criticized by Western media outlets. In 2012, The Wall Street Journal reported that the cost of training one Korean idol under SM Entertainment averaged US$3 million.    Hybrid genre and transnational values   K-pop is a cultural product that features values, identity and meanings that go beyond their strictly commercial value. It is characterized by a mixture of modern Western sounds and African-American influences including sounds from Hip-hop, R&B, Jazz, black pop, soul, funk, techno, disco, house, and Afrobeats with a Korean aspect of performance including synchronized dance moves, formation changes and the so-called point choreography consisting of hooking and repetitive key movements. It has been remarked that there is a vision of modernization inherent in Korean pop culture. For some, the transnational values of K-pop are responsible for its success. A commentator at the University of California, San Diego has said that contemporary Korean pop culture is built on ... transnational flows ... taking place across, beyond, and outside national and institutional boundaries. Some examples of the transnational values inherent in K-pop that may appeal to those from different ethnic, national, and religious backgrounds include a dedication to high-quality output and presentation of idols, as well as their work ethic and polite social demeanor, made possible by the training period.    Use of English phrases   Modern K-pop is marked by its use of English phrases. Jin Dal Yong of Popular Music and Society wrote that the usage may be influenced by Korean-Americans andor Koreans who studied in the U.S. [who] take full advantage of their English fluency and cultural resources that are not found commonly among those who were raised and educated in Korea. Korean pop music from singers or groups who are Korean-American such as Fly to the Sky, g.o.d, Rich, Yoo Seung-jun, and Drunken Tiger has both American style and English lyrics. These Korean-American singers' music has a different style from common Korean music, which attracts the interest of young people. Increasingly, foreign songwriters and producers are employed to work on songs for K-pop idols, such as will.i.am and Sean Garrett. Foreign musicians, including rappers such as Akon, Kanye West, Ludacris, and Snoop Dogg, have also featured on K-pop songs. Entertainment companies help to expand K-pop to other parts of the world through a number of different methods. Singers need to use English since the companies want to occupy markets in the other parts of Asia, which enables them to open the Western market in the end. Most K-pop singers learn English because it is a common language in the world of music, but some singers also learn other foreign languages such as Japanese to approach the Japanese market. Similarly, increasing numbers of K-pop bands use English names rather than Korean ones. This allows songs and artists to be marketed to a wider audience around the world. However, the use of English has not guaranteed the popularity of K-pop in the North American market. For some commentators, the reason for this is because the genre can be seen as a distilled version of Western music, making it difficult for K-pop to find acceptance in these markets. Furthermore, Western audiences tend to place emphasis on authenticity and individual expression in music, which the idol system can be seen as suppressing.  According to Elaine W. Chun's research, even though hybridity appears more and more often in K-pop, and sometimes may even make fans admire K-pop stars more because it is fresh, new and interesting, it is hard to change those who believe in a perfect ideal for pure linguistic. This means that the original form of language is still difficult to alter.    Artist names, song titles, and lyrics have exhibited significant growth in the usage of English words. No singers in the top fifty charts in 1990 had English in their names: people who worked in the Korean music industry viewed using Korean names as standard. In 1995, most popular singers such as Kim Gun-mo, Park Mi-kyung, Park Jin-young, Lee Seung-chul, and Byun Jin-sub still used Korean names, but fourteen of the singers and groups in the top fifty used English names, including DJ DOC, 015B, Piano, and Solid. After the 1997 financial crisis, the government stopped censoring English lyrics and Korea started to have a boom in English. Since the late 1990s, English usage in singers' names, song titles, and lyrics has grown quickly. Seventeen singers in the top fifty charts used English names in 2000, and thirty-one did so in 2005. In 2010, forty-one singers used English names among the top fifty songs, but usually, three or four singers and groups had more than one or two songs on the chart simultaneously. Korean names e.g. Baek Ji-young, Seo In-young, and Huh Gak are seen less frequently, and many K-pop singers have English names e.g. IU, Sistar, T-ara, GD & TOP, Beast, and After School. Notably, until the early 1990s, musicians with English names would transliterate them into hangul, but now singers would use English names written with the Roman alphabet. In 1995, the percentage of song titles using English in the top 50 charts was 8%. This fluctuated between 30% in 2000, 18% in 2005, and 44% in 2010. An example of a Korean song with a large proportion of English lyrics is Kara's Jumping, which was released at the same time in both Korea and Japan to much success.    Marketing  Many agencies have presented new idol groups to an audience through a debut showcase which consists of online marketing and television broadcast promotions as opposed to radio. Groups are given a name and a concept along with a marketing hook. These concepts are the type of visual and musical theme that idol groups utilize during their debut or comeback. Concepts can change between debuts and fans often distinguish between boy group concepts and girl group concepts. Concepts can also be divided between general concepts and theme concepts, such as cute or fantasy. New idol groups will often debut with a concept well known to the market to secure a successful debut. Sometimes sub-units or sub-groups are formed among existing members. Two example subgroups are Super Junior-K.R.Y., which consists of Super Junior members Kyuhyun, Ryeowook, and Yesung, and Super Junior-M, which became one of the best-selling K-pop subgroups in China. Online marketing includes music videos posted to YouTube in order to reach a worldwide audience. Prior to the actual video, the group releases teaser photos and trailers. Promotional cycles of subsequent singles are called comebacks even when the musician or group in question did not go on hiatus.    Dance   Dance is an integral part of K-pop. When combining multiple singers, the singers often switch their positions while singing and dancing by making prompt movements in synchrony, a strategy called formation changing 자리바꿈; jaribakkum. The K-pop choreography 안무; 按舞; anmu often includes the so-called point dance 포인트 안무; pointeu anmu, referring to a dance made up of hooking and repetitive movements within the choreography that matches the characteristics of the lyrics of the song. Super Junior's Sorry Sorry and Brown Eyed Girls' Abracadabra are examples of songs with notable point choreography. To choreograph a dance for a song requires the writers to take the tempo into account. According to Ellen Kim, a Los Angeles dancer and choreographer, a fan's ability to do the same steps must also be considered. Consequently, K-pop choreographers have to simplify movements.  The training and preparation necessary for K-pop idols to succeed in the industry and dance successfully are intense. Training centers like Seoul's Def Dance Skool develop the dance skills of youth in order to give them a shot at becoming an idol. Physical training is one of the largest focuses at the school, as much of a student's schedule is based around dance and exercise. The entertainment labels are highly selective, so few make it to fame. Students at the school must dedicate their lives to the mastery of dance in order to prepare for the vigorous routines performed by K-pop groups. This, of course, means that the training must continue if they are signed. Companies house much larger training centers for those who are chosen. An interview with K-pop choreographer Rino Nakasone lends insight into the process of creating routines. According to Nakasone, her focus is to make dance routines that are flattering for the dancers but also complementary to the music. Her ideas are submitted to the entertainment company as video recordings done by professional dancers. Nakasone mentions that the company and the K-pop artists themselves have input on a song's choreography. Choreographer May J. Lee gives another perspective, telling that her choreography often starts out as expressing the feeling or the meaning of the lyrics. What starts out as small movements turns into a full dance that is better able to portray the message of the song.    Fashion   The emergence of Seo Taiji and Boys in 1992 paved the way for the development of contemporary K-pop groups. The group revolutionized the Korean music scene by incorporating rap and American hip-hop conventions into their music. This adoption of Western style extended to the fashions worn by the boy band: the members adopted a hip-hop aesthetic. Seo and bandmates' outfits for the promotional cycle of I Know included vibrant streetwear such as oversized T-shirts and sweatshirts, windbreakers, overalls worn with one strap, overalls worn with one pant leg rolled up, and American sports team jerseys. Accessories included baseball caps worn backwards, bucket hats, and do-rags. As K-pop was born of post-Seo trends, many acts that followed Seo Taiji and Boys adopted the same fashion style. Deux and DJ DOC can also be seen wearing on-trend hip-hop fashions such as sagging baggy pants, sportswear, and bandanas in their performances. With Korean popular music transforming into youth-dominated media, manufactured teenage idol groups began debuting in the mid and late 1990s, wearing coordinated costumes that reflected the popular fashion trends among youth at the time. Hip-hop fashion, considered the most popular style in the late '90s, remained, with idol groups H.O.T. and Sechs Kies wearing the style for their debut songs. The use of accessories elevated the idol's style from everyday fashion to performance costume, like ski goggles worn either around the head or neck, headphones worn around the neck, and oversized gloves worn to accentuate choreography moves were widely used. H.O.T.'s 1996 hit Candy exemplifies the level of coordination taken into account for idol's costumes, as each member wore a designated color and accessorized with face paint, fuzzy oversized mittens, visors, bucket hats, and earmuffs, and used stuffed animals, backpacks, and messenger bags as props.  While male idol groups' costumes were constructed with similar color schemes, fabrics, and styles, the outfits worn by each member still maintained individuality. On the other hand, female idol groups of the '90s wore homogeneous costumes, often styled identically. The costumes for female idols during their early promotions often focused on portraying an innocent, youthful image. S.E.S.'s debut in 1997, 'Cause I'm Your Girl, and Baby Vox's second album 1998 hit, Ya Ya Ya, featured the girls dressed in white outfits, To My Boyfriend by Fin.K.L shows idols in pink schoolgirl costumes, and One and End of Chakra presented Hindu and African style costumes. To portray a natural and somewhat saccharine image, the accessories were limited to large bows, pompom hair ornaments and hair bands. With the maturation of female idol groups and the removal of bubblegum pop in the late 1990s, the sets of female idol groups focused on following the fashion trends of the time, many of which were revealing pieces. The latest promotions of the girl groups Baby Vox and Jewelry exemplify these trends of hot pants, micro-miniskirts, crop tops, peasant blouses, transparent garments and blouses on the upper part of the torso. As K-pop became a modern hybrid of Western and Asian cultures starting from the late 2000s, fashion trends within K-pop reflected diversity and distinction as well. Fashion trends from the late 2000s to early 2010s can largely be categorized under the following:  Street: focuses on individuality; features bright colors, mix-and-match styling, graphic prints, and sports brands such as Adidas and Reebok. Retro: aims to bring back nostalgia from the 1960s to 1980s; features dot prints and detailed patterns. Common clothing items include denim jackets, boot-cut pants, wide pants, hair bands, scarves, and sunglasses. Sexy: highlights femininity and masculinity; features revealing outfits made of satin, lace, fur, and leather. Common clothing items include mini skirts, corsets, net stockings, high heels, sleeveless vests, and see-through shirts. Black & White: emphasizes modern and chic, symbolizes elegance and charisma, mostly applied to formal wear. Futurism: commonly worn with electronic and hip-hop genres; features popping color items, metallic details and prints; promotes a futuristic outlook.  K-pop has a significant influence on fashion in Asia, where trends started by idols are followed by young audiences. Some idols have established status as fashion icons, such as G-Dragon and CL, who has repeatedly worked with fashion designer Jeremy Scott, being labeled his muse. According to professor Ingyu Oh, K-pop emphasizes thin, tall, and feminine looks with adolescent or sometimes very cute facial expressions, regardless of whether they're male or female singers.    Government support   The South Korean government has acknowledged benefits to the country's export sector as a result of the Korean Wave it was estimated in 2011 that a US$100 increase in the export of cultural products resulted in a US$412 increase in exports of other consumer goods including food, clothes, cosmetics and IT products and thus have subsidized certain endeavours. Government initiatives to expand the popularity of K-pop are mostly undertaken by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, which is responsible for the worldwide establishment of Korean Cultural Centers. South Korean embassies and consulates have also organized K-pop concerts outside the country, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly invites overseas K-pop fans to attend the annual K-Pop World Festival in South Korea. In addition to reaping economic benefits from the popularity of K-pop, the South Korean government has been taking advantage of the influence of K-pop in diplomacy. In an age of mass communication, soft power pursuing one's goals by persuading stakeholders using cultural and ideological power is regarded as a more effective and pragmatic diplomatic tactic than the traditional diplomatic strategy hard power obtaining what one wants from stakeholders through direct intimidation such as military threat and economic sanctions. Cultural diplomacy through K-pop is a form of soft power. An example of the South Korean government effort in diplomacy through K-pop is the Mnet Asian Music Awards MAMA, a K-pop music award ceremony. Park Geun-hye the Korean president at the time delivered the opening statement at the 2014 MAMA, which was held in Hong Kong and sponsored by the Korean Small and Medium Business Administration SMBA. This event was considered a deliberate endeavor by the Korean government to support Korean cultural industries in order to strengthen the nation's international reputation and political influence. Another example of cultural diplomacy is K-pop performances in North Korea. Prior to 2005, South Korean pop singers occasionally gave performances in North Korea. After an interval of more than a decade, approximately 190 South Korean performers, including well-known musicians Red Velvet, Lee Sun-hee, Cho Yong-pil, and Yoon Do-hyun, performed in Pyongyang, North Korea, on March 31 and April 3, 2018. Kim Jong Un was present in the audience.    History     Origins of Korean popular music   The history of Korean popular music can be traced back to 1885 when an American missionary, Henry Appenzeller, began teaching American and British folk songs at a school. These songs were called changga 창가; 唱歌, and they were typically based on a popular Western melody sung with Korean lyrics. For example, the song Oh My Darling, Clementine became known as Simcheongga 심청가; 沈淸歌. During the Japanese colonial period 1910–1945, the popularity of changga songs rose as Koreans expressed their feelings against Japanese oppression through music. One of the most popular songs was Huimangga 희망가; 希望歌. The Japanese confiscated the existing changga collections and published lyrics books of their own. K-pop was represented by H.O.T in the early days, and it was mostly fanatical, flashy, and showed the rebellious psychology of young people in the emotional aspects. Most of the songs are relatively fast-paced and have a strong sense of rhythm, which is suitable for dancing. They often sing and dance when they perform, and the choreography urbanance is a very important factor in popularity. The first known Korean pop album was I Pungjin Sewol 이 풍진 세월; 이 風塵 歲月; lit. This Tumultuous Time, by Park Chae-seon and Lee Ryu-saek in 1925, which contained popular songs translated from Japanese. The first pop song written by a Korean composer is thought to be Nakhwayusu 낙화유수; 落花流水; lit. Fallen Blossoms on Running Water sung by Lee Jeong-suk in 1929. In the mid-1920s, Japanese composer Masao Koga mixed traditional Korean music with Gospel music that American Evangelists introduced in the 1870s. This type of music became known as Enka in Japan, and later in Korea developed into Trot 트로트; teuroteu; t'ŭrot'ŭ. In the 1930s singers such as Wang Su-bok, Lee Eun-pa and the Jeogori Sisters popularised folk music further.    1940s–1960s: Arrival of Western culture   After the Korean Peninsula was partitioned into North and South following its liberation in 1945 from Japanese occupation, Western culture was introduced into South Korea on a small scale, with a few Western-styled bars and clubs playing Western music. After the Korean War 1950–1953 U.S. troops remained in South Korea, causing American and world culture to spread in South Korea and Western music to gradually become more accepted. Prominent figures of American entertainment like Nat King Cole, Marilyn Monroe and Louis Armstrong held USO shows in South Korea for the U.S. Army. These visits prompted attention from the Korean public. In 1957, the American Forces Korea Network radio started its broadcast, spreading the popularity of Western music. American music started influencing Korean music, as pentatony was gradually replaced by heptachords and popular songs started to be modeled after American ones. In the 1960s, the development of LP records and improvements in recording technology led to the pursuit of diverse voice tones. Open auditions were also held to recruit musicians to perform at the U.S. army clubs. Since South Korea was impoverished after the Korean War, skilled Korean singers regarded performing for the U.S. troops as a good means to earn money. Many singers sang for the American troops, usually in dedicated clubs, the number of which rose to 264. They performed various genres like country music, blues, jazz and rock & roll. The South Korean economy started blooming and popular music followed the trend, spread by the first commercial radio stations. Korean cinema also began to develop and Korean musicians began performing to wider audiences. When Beatlemania reached the shores of Korea the first local rock bands appeared, the first of which is said to be Add4, a band founded in 1962. The first talent contest for rock bands in Seoul was organized in 1968. Some Korean singers gained international popularity. In 1959, the Kim Sisters went to Las Vegas and became the first Korean artist to release an album in the U.S. pop market. Their cover of Charlie Brown reached No.7 on the Billboard Single Chart. The Kim Sisters also appeared on TV programs and radio programs and held tours in the U.S. and Europe. They made 25 appearances on The Ed Sullivan Show—more than American stars like Patti Page and Louis Armstrong who appeared 18 times each. The Kim Sisters, Yoon Bok-hee and Patti Kim were the first singers to debut in such countries as Vietnam and the United States. The Kim Sisters became the first Korean group to release an album in the United States. They also performed in Las Vegas. Han Myeong-suk's 1961 song The Boy in The Yellow Shirt was covered by French singer Yvette Giraud and was also popular in Japan. In the 1960s, the Korean artists such as Shin Joong-hyun, Pearl Sisters and Patti Kim who previously performed for the U.S. army clubs reached out to the Korean public. In the mid-1960s, due to the influence of the legendary British group The Beatles, there was a rise of group sound in South Korea, for example, Add4 and the Key Boys.  Add4, Korea's first rock group, was formed by Shin Joong-hyun in 1962 and produced Korea's first rock song, The Woman in the Rain, which is a form of light rock reminiscent of the early Beatles. Shin Joong-hyun was so instrumental in the development of Korean rock music that he is regarded as the godfather of Korean rock in South Korea. During this period, with the rise of Western pop music and Korean rock music, trot was no longer predominant in South Korea. However, trot singers like Lee Mi-ja still managed to attract a certain level of popularity, with famous songs like Camellia Lady 동백 아가씨; 冬柏 아가씨; dongbaek agassi. During the 1950s and 60s, Western pop music, Korean rock music, and trot co-existed in South Korea.    Late 1960s and 1970s: Hippie and folk influences  At the end of the 1960s Korean pop music underwent another transformation. More and more musicians were university students and graduates who were heavily influenced by American culture and lifestyle including the hippie movement of the 1960s and made lighthearted music unlike their predecessors, who were influenced by war and Japanese oppression. The younger generation opposed the Vietnam War as much as American hippies did, which resulted in the Korean government banning songs with more liberal lyrics. In spite of this, folk-influenced pop remained popular among the youth, and local television channel MBC organized a music contest for university students in 1977. This was the foundation of several modern music festivals. The younger generation born after the 1950s had grown up under the U.S. influence and preferred the U.S. lifestyle, giving rise to the youth culture which was expressed through long hair, jeans, acoustic guitars and folk music.  The folk music of that time is made up of melodies sung plainly, with the singing accompanied by a guitar or two. A majority of the folk music at that time was initiated by elite university students and those who graduated from prestigious schools. Like the activists of the U.S. student movement, they turned to folk music as the preferred music of politicized youth, who staged demonstrations against the authoritarian government.  In turn, the government banned folk music due to its association with the students' anti-government movements. In the 1970s, the Park Chung Hee government banned American pop music and Korean rock music for their association with sex and drugs. Shin Joong-hyun, the godfather of Korean rock music, was imprisoned in 1975 due to a marijuana scandal. In order to bolster its anti-Japanese credentials, the government also banned trot songs because of its Japanese style 왜색; 倭色; waesaek given the influence of Japanese enka songs on trot. However, President Park actually embraced trot. One of the leading figures of the era was Hahn Dae-soo, who was raised in the United States and influenced by Bob Dylan, Leonard Cohen and John Lennon. Han's song Mul jom juso Korean: 물 좀 주소; lit. Give me water became iconic among young people in Korea. His daring performances and unique singing style often shocked the public and later he was banned from performing in Korea. Han moved to New York City and pursued his musical career there, only returning to his home country in the 1990s. Other notable singers of the period include Song Chang-sik, Jo Young-nam, and Yang Hee-eun. In the 1970s, DJs also started to become popular.    1980s: The era of ballads   The 1980s saw the rise of ballad singers after Lee Gwang-jo's 1985 album You're Too Far Away to Get Close to 가까이 하기엔 너무 먼 당신 sold more than 300,000 copies. Other popular ballad singers included Lee Moon-se 이문세 and Byun Jin-sub 변진섭, nicknamed the Prince of Ballads. One of the most sought-after ballad composers of the era was Lee Young-hoon 이영훈, whose songs were compiled into a modern musical in 2011 titled Gwanghwamun Yeonga 광화문 연가; lit. Gwanghwamun sonata. The Asia Music Forum was launched in 1980, with representatives from five different Asian countries competing in the event. Korean singer Cho Yong-pil won first place and went on to have a successful career, performing in Hong Kong and Japan. His first album Chang bakkui yeoja 창 밖의 여자; lit. Woman Outside the Window was a hit and he became the first Korean singer to take to the stage at Carnegie Hall in New York. Cho's musical repertoire included rock, dance, trot and folk-pop. Despite his early association with rock music as an electric guitarist in a rock band, Cho Yong-pil's initial popularity came from his trot songs which were popular in both South Korea and Japan. For example, in 1976, his trot song, Please Return to Pusan Port 돌아와요 부산항에 was a great hit. Despite the temporary setback due to his involvement in a marijuana incident in 1977, he managed to bounce back with the song The Woman Outside the Window which reached a record-breaking sales of 1 million in 1980. In 1988, he sang Seoul Seoul Seoul in three languages Korean, English and Japanese to celebrate the 1988 Seoul Olympic Games.    1990s: Development of modern K-pop   In the 1990s, Korean pop musicians incorporated partially Europop and mostly American popular music styles such as hip hop, rock, jazz, and electronic dance in their music. In 1992, the emergence of Seo Taiji and Boys marked a revolutionary moment in the history of K-pop. The trio debuted on MBC's talent show on April 11, 1992, with their song I Know and got the lowest rating from the jury; however, the song and their self-titled debut album became so successful that it paved the way for other songs of the same format. The song's success was attributed to its new jack swing-inspired beats and memorable chorus, as well as innovative lyrics which dealt with the problems of Korean society. A wave of successful hip hop and R&B artists followed in their footsteps, including Yoo Seung-jun, Jinusean, Solid, Deux, 1TYM and Drunken Tiger. In 1995, South Korean record producer Lee Soo-man, who was educated in the U.S. and was exposed to the trends in American music, founded the entertainment company SM Entertainment. Former Seo Taiji & Boys' member Yang Hyun-suk formed YG Entertainment in 1996, and Park Jin-young established JYP Entertainment in 1997. The huge popularity of Seo Taiji & Boys among teenagers shifted the focus of the Korean music industry to teen-centred pop music. Idol bands of young boys or girls were formed to cater to a growing teenage audience. H.O.T. was one of the first idol boybands, debuting in 1996 after rigorous training encompassing not only singing and dancing skills but also etiquette, attitude, language and the ability to deal with the media. Their song Candy presented a softer and gentler form of pop music with upbeat and cheerful melodies accompanied by energetic dance steps – a formula adopted by many subsequent idol groups. The group was hugely successful, with many fans copying the group members' hairstyles and fashion. Merchandise affiliated with the group ranging from candy to perfume were sold as well. Their success was followed by that of young male and female idol groups like Sechs Kies, S.E.S., Fin.K.L, NRG, Baby Vox, Diva, Shinhwa and g.o.d, which also became popular among the younger generation. During the late 1990s, talent agencies began to market K-pop stars by implementing an idol business model used in J-pop, where talents are selected and trained to appeal to a global audience through formal lessons or through residency programs. The extensive and intensive process includes physical and language training a program sometimes called abusive, and potential talents are also selected for height, being much taller on average than their Japanese counterparts. Sociology professor Ingyu Oh has explained regarding looks, K-pop emphasizes thin, tall, and feminine looks with adolescent or sometimes very cute facial expressions, regardless of whether they're male or female singers. Over time, Korean-American artists have become successful due to their fluency. These efforts increase the marketability of K-pop while also increasing South Korean soft power, which has become an important part of official policy. The 1990s saw a reactionary movement against mainstream popular culture with the rise of illegal underground music clubs and punk rock bands such as Crying Nut. The 1997 Asian financial crisis not only prompted South Korean entertainers to look for new markets, with H.O.T. releasing a Mandarin-language album and Diva releasing an English-language album in Taiwan, but also prompted South Korea's leaders to focus on building the nation's cultural influence through music. The government poured millions into building infrastructure, technology, and a specific department within its Ministry of Culture for K-pop. Regulations were passed on karaoke bars, for example, to protect the interests of idols.    21st century     Industry     Agencies  K-pop has spawned an entire industry encompassing music production houses, event management companies, music distributors, and other merchandise and service providers. The three biggest companies in terms of sales and revenue are SM Entertainment, YG Entertainment and JYP Entertainment, often referred to as the 'Big Three.' These record labels also function as representative agencies for their artists. They are responsible for recruiting, financing, training, and marketing new artists as well as managing their musical activities and public relations. Currently, the agency with the greatest market share is S.M. Entertainment. In 2011, together with Star J Entertainment, AM Entertainment, and Key East, the Big Three companies founded the joint management company United Asia Management.    Sales and market value  In 2009, DFSB Kollective became the first distributor of K-pop on iTunes. In 2012, the average cost of obtaining a K-pop song in South Korea amounted to US$0.10 for a single download, or $0.002 when streamed online. According to Billboard, the Korean music industry grossed nearly US$3.4 billion in the first half of 2012—a 27.8% increase on the previous year—and was recognized by Time magazine as South Korea's Greatest Export. In 2017, it was estimated that the K-pop music industry had a revenue of US$5 billion. By 2019, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry IFPI listed South Korea as the 6th largest music market in the world, with BTS alone accounting for $4.65 billion, or 0.3%, of South Korea's GDP. In 2024, IFPI declared K-pop the leading global genre in unit sales, across both physical and digital formats. Seventeen of the top twenty albums on the IFPI Global Album Sales Chart that year belonged to the genre.    Record charts   Korean record charts include the Circle Digital Chart and the Billboard K-pop Hot 100. More recently, K-pop records have appeared on the Oricon Albums Chart of Japan and the Billboard Hot 100 of the United States. The Circle Digital Chart compiles data from South Korea's various platforms, including Apple Music, Spotify, MelOn, Bugs, Vibe, Genie, Flo and Samsung Music. Some of the platforms release hourly and daily charts, which are compiled by the South Korean company iChart. There are three achievements achievable by iChart: All-Kill, Certified All-Kill, and Perfect All-Kill. An All-Kill occurs when a song simultaneously places first on all of South Korea's major music platforms real-time charts, a Certified All-Kill occurs when a song simultaneously places first on all of South Korea's major music platforms real-time and daily charts. The highest achievement, a Perfect All-Kill occurs when a song simultaneously places first on South Korea's music platforms real-time, daily and weekly charts. Sajaegi 사재기 is the Korean term for chart manipulation by way of bulk purchasing of albums or using bots to boost streams, which has potential to question to credibility of charts.    Trainee system   The method of having K-pop trainees go through a rigorous training system for an undetermined amount of time before debut was popularized by Lee Soo-man, founder of SM Entertainment, as part of a concept labelled cultural technology. Lee Soo-man states that this allows his organization to move in a systematic way and that he decided to codify the entire process of producing culture into a form of technology by creating a formula and manualizing it, while continuously recording its development process along with the knowledge and skills involved. The Verge described this as an extreme system of artist management. According to the CEO of Universal Music's Southeast Asian branch, the Korean idol trainee system is unique in the world. Due to the length of the training period, which can extend for multiple years, and the significant financial investment that agencies commit towards their trainees, the industry approaches the launching of new artists with deliberate care. SM Entertainment says that their trainee program states that the trainee period can last at least a year and a maximum of six years. Trainees may enter an agency through auditions or be scouted, and once recruited are given accommodation and classes commonly singing, dancing, rapping, and foreign languages such as Mandarin, English and Japanese while they prepare for debut. During their trainee days, they are tested on their vocal skills like voice tone, vocalization, and rhythm that can be adapted to the current trends at a global level. Young trainees sometimes attend school at the same time. There is no age limit to become a trainee and no limit to the duration one can spend as a trainee. There is still a chance the trainee will never make it to debut in a group after the extensive educational program.    Trainee challenges  Some young trainees have dropped out of school to start training as K-pop idols, including Rosé from Blackpink. In a Vogue Australia interview, she said, I decided to drop out of school and all my teachers and friends were like: 'What Why are you leaving Nobody knew what K-pop was, so nobody understood where I was going. Leaving Melbourne at the age of 16, Rosé trained with YG Entertainment for four years before debuting with Blackpink. This isn't uncommon—Taemin from Shinee entering the industry at 11 years old—but Rosé was one of the handful discussed the difficulty of being a trainee openly. Dr. Sarah Keith explained that idols are such a valuable asset to an agency with well rounded talent in singing, rapping, dancing, or songwriting, therefore, face restriction like the limitations of what they can say due to the agencies' significant investment. In September 2024, Hanni from New Jeans testified to Korean lawmakers about the workplace harassment and mistreatment during her time at Hybe. In her testimony, Hanni describes being ignored by managers and sunbae senior idols within the company. She also wishes that younger trainees that will soon debut will not have to suffer through the incidents that the 20-year-old has been through.    New era of trainee system  In the 2020 Netflix documentary, BLACKPINK: Light Up the Sky, Blackpink's Jennie claimed that the trainee system is what defines K-pop. According to Hybe and Geffen Records, the comprehensive idol training program that has caught the global eye was Hybe's formation of Katseye, the 2024 global girl group. Katseye is the multiracial, English language girl group that was modeled off of the K-pop principles. Through this global competition reality show in 2023, Debut: Dream Academy, Netflix depicted the girls' experiences in the auditions and their trainee journey to becoming an idol in a documentary series, Pop Star Academy: KATSEYE. In the 8 episode series, Mitra, the president of HXG at Hybe America, said, A survival show is created because there is a section in the K-pop fan base that gets in early with the trainees. The goal of Hybe X Geffen's efforts was to take the K out of K-pop to build a talent pipeline of diverse skills and cultures as the next step in the evolution of K-pop. Nadia Hallgren, director of the docuseries, hoped that viewers can learn that [y]ou can have all the talent in the world, you could have the best training and the fancy schools, if you have access, but can you mentally push through to get to the end and she describes the key takeaway is through these trainees, you can understand the lengths that one will go to reach their dream of becoming an artist. After 120,000 submissions, 20 finalist were narrowed down and viewers got to take part in voting for their favorite trainees. Through different challenges the trainees were able to have the opportunity to showcase their personality and talent to the public. The fan voting system created tension and competition between the girls. Eliminations were significant turning points as contestants aspired to become a popstar by dropping out of high school to participate in this survival show. Sophia Laforteza, one of the members that debuted said, The whole experience was just so much tension, so much uncertainty, and so much competition and pressure.    Trainee system origin  In 1959, Motown was founded by Berry Gordy Jr in Detroit, Michigan. He created Motown artist like Martha and the Vandellas, Smokey Robinson and the Miracles, The Temptations, The Four Tops, Diana Ross and the Supremes, Gladys Knight and the Pips, The Jackson 5, Stevie Wonder, and Marvin Gaye. Gordy would write songs, train them, produce, and work on his artists' individual sound. Motown would guide and direct the artists and groups towards success by overseeing many aspects of career. JYP referenced Berry Gordy's training system in order to create his own trainee system at JYP Entertainment. As a guest on YouTube episode talkshow series, Joon & Brian BYOB, JYP said, I learned it from the US, but US stopped doing it and we kept doing it. That's what happened. He also expressed his thoughts that K-pop could work in America through his trainee system. And now, we basically casted American talents and made them into a group with our system. referring to the girl group, VCHA JYP told CNBC that he is looking to move to the next stage by finding foreign talent because the industry can't keep sending over Korean stars forever...    Future of trainee systems  SM Entertainment launch SM Culture Universe and in 2020 the first metaverse girl group, Aespa, in which real life members correspond to their virtual counterparts. Lee Soo-man believes that this is the future of the industry. Constantly evolving and innovating technology will put SM Entertainment one step ahead of competition. More groups like Plave by VLAST have made a significant impact in the Korean music scene with an all virtual boy group that utilizes the metaverse and AI. The future of new idols is tapping into the international music market by incorporating hints of Korean into predominantly English language songs. Examples like APT. by Rosé and Bruno Mars.    Television   The Korean music industry has spawned numerous related reality TV shows, including talent shows such as Superstar K and K-pop Star, specialist rap competition Show Me the Money and its female counterpart Unpretty Rapstar, and many 'survival' shows, which commonly pit trainees against each other in order to form a new idol group. Examples of survival shows include Jellyfish Entertainment's MyDOL, which formed boy group VIXX; Sixteen, which formed girl group Twice; Starship Entertainment's No.Mercy, which formed boy group Pentagon, and Mnet's Produce 101, which formed girl groups I.O.I and IzOne and boy groups Wanna One and X1. The rise in these shows, which often involves larger agencies contracting smaller agencies' trainees into project groups and taking a larger portion of the revenues, has led to criticisms over the former monopolizing the industry.    Music shows   KBS2: Music Bank SBS: Inkigayo MBC: Show Music Core Mnet: M Countdown Arirang TV: Pops in Seoul Arirang TV: Simply K-Pop formerly called The M-Wave and Wave K JTBC: Music on Top JTBC: Music Universe K-909 MBC M: Show Champion SBS M: The Show    Criticism of industry practices     Hybrid identity  There have been critical responses in South Korea regarding the identity of the genre since its ascendance. Some of the notable music critics in the region have criticized K-pop as an industrial label mainly designed to promote the national brand in the global market from the beginning and argued that it was not formed spontaneously as a pop culture but created with the orchestrated plan led by the government with commercial considerations although in fact the genre has practically no ties with traditional Korean identity. There is the perspective that the name of the genre was derived from J-pop. K-pop has at times faced criticisms from journalists who perceive the music to be formulaic and unoriginal. Some K-Pop groups have been accused of plagiarizing Western music acts as well as other musical acts. In addition, K-pop has been criticized for its reliance on English phrases, with critics dubbing the use of English in titles meaningless. K-pop groups have been regularly accused of cultural appropriation of cultures such as African-American culture, especially due to the frequent use of cornrows and bandanas in idol groups' on-stage styling. Some have used blackface and racial slurs as part of their performances. K-Pop groups have also been accused of appropriating Native American and Indian cultures. However, debate exists about whether the borrowing of cultural elements from cultures outside of Korea indeed constitutes cultural appropriation, or if this cultural appropriation is negative at all. Crystal S. Anderson writes that appropriating elements of a culture by taking them out of their original context and using them in a completely different way does not automatically constitute negative cultural appropriation.    Corruption  In 2002, Time magazine reported that Korean television producers such as Hwang Yong-woo and Kim Jong-jin had been arrested for accepting under-the-table payments guaranteeing TV appearances to aspiring singers and musicians in a bid to tackle systemic corruption in South Korea's music business. Companies investigated included SidusHQ and SM Entertainment.    Working conditions  K-pop management companies have also been criticized for exploitation of idols through overwork and restrictive contracts, described as slave contracts in a BBC report. According to The Hollywood Reporter, Korea's entertainment business is notoriously improvisational and unregulated. In-demand K-pop stars – many of whom are teenage 'idols' – have been known to rehearse and perform without sleep. In July 2009, SM Entertainment was taken to court by TVXQ and a Super Junior member, who alleged that their working conditions had led to adverse health effects. The court decision in the TVXQ lawsuit determined their contract with SM Entertainment void, and resultantly the Fair Trade Commission released contract templates to regulate industry conditions. In 2014, South Korea passed a law to regulate its music industry, protecting idols aged under 19 from unhealthy labor practices and overtly sexualized performances and guaranteeing them the basic rights to learn, rest and sleep. Failure to comply with these regulations may lead to the equivalent of a US$10,000 fine. Industry professionals such as SM Entertainment's CEO Kim Young-min have defended the system, arguing that individuals trained within the system are no different than  [sic] typical middle or high school kids, who go to after-school programs to cram for college entrance exams. Kim has also argued that there is a need to consider the expenses incurred by the company during the trainee period, including facilities, equipment, costumes, and virtually everything the trainees need. On March 7, 2017, the South Korea Fair Trade Commission KFTC passed new regulations in order to protect trainee idols from unfair terms and working conditions. Prior to these regulations, trainee idols at eight idol agencies were not permitted to seek contracts at any other agency while at training. Moreover, agencies were able to terminate a trainee contract at any time for any reason. The Fair Trade Commission states that they believe these changes will result in a more just contract culture within the entertainment industry between trainee and agency. The Ministry of Culture applied these regulations to all existing agencies throughout 2018. Some of the concerns raised by the idol agencies over these regulations include the risk of a trainee at one agency going undercover at another agency to receive training with the other agency. This introduces the further risk that the idol agencies must take in training new idols. Trainees train for three years on average and the agencies support these trainees with various training programs during this duration, resulting in each trainee being a very large investment for the agency.    Control over public image  K-pop management is very strict in terms of regulating the public appearance of their groups, according to Michael Hurt, a lecturer of cultural theory at the Korea National University of Arts. Therefore, he reasoned, most stars are not allowed to date publicly or have control of their own lives. Kwon Joon-won, an entertainment management professor at the Dong-ah Institute of Media and Arts, said K-pop stars should be expected to lose half of their fandom if they were to make controversial statements. This may explain why K-pop groups are more outspoken about social issues abroad than within South Korea.    Sexualization and pressure on appearance  The industry has been criticized for the sexualization of both male and female idols, with the sexualization of minors in particular being of concern. Critics such as James Turnbull of the Korean Pop Culture blog The Grand Narrative have argued young female idols are especially susceptible to pressures to wear revealing clothing or dance provocatively. However, compared to western popular music, K-pop has little sex, drugs, or aggressive behavior and has a much more parent-friendly branding. In 2014, South Korea passed a law to protect idols under the age of 19 from overtly sexualized performances. Questions have also been raised over K-pop's focus on appearance and its effects on children and teens, especially pressure to obtain cosmetic surgeries. In 2019, the South Korean Ministry of Gender Equality and Family announced non-mandatory guidelines in an effort to prevent lookism. One recommendation asked to limit how many idol singers can appear on TV together, saying most of them are skinny ... with outfits exposing their bodies. The concern was that their nearly identical appearances would narrow the standards of beauty. Many young viewers of K-pop are raised in a culture where cosmetic surgery is promoted. Some idols openly document themselves undergoing surgery. The government recommendations upset many fans, however, who began circulating an online petition in protest. An opposition politician also compared the guidelines to regulations under the military dictatorship of Chun Doo-hwan.    Mental health and suicides  Some K-pop artists have suggested that the uncertainty and pressures of their jobs as entertainers may be detrimental to their mental health. According to musician Park Kyung of Block B, There are many people who debuted with no sense of self yet, and they come to realize later that every move and every word they say is being observed so they become cautious and lose their freedom. In an interview with Yonhap News, Suga of BTS talked about his own mental health, and said, Anxiety and loneliness seem to be with me for life...Emotions are so different in every situation and every moment, so I think to agonise every moment is what life is. The suicides of prominent K-pop musicians have drawn attention to both industry and societal pressures. In 1996, singer Charles Park, also known as Seo Ji-won, died by suicide at the age of 19, before the release of his second album. Kim Jong-hyun, who had previously been open about his history of depression, also died by suicide in December 2017. In the spring of 2018, a number of prominent Korean musicians participated in a free concert series to raise awareness of suicide prevention. In 2019 Sulli, a member of the girl group fx, took her life and was followed one month later by her close friend Goo Hara. Both were subjected to cyberbullying, which added to calls for reform. In 2023, the death of Moonbin renewed scrutiny on the highly competitive world of Korean show business and the pressures its performers face. One reason is that K-pop amplifies the pressure to be perfect, already intense in Korean society. After dating fellow musician Choiza, Sulli became the center of online abuse because K-pop idols are expected not to be in a relationship for years. During one talk show, she expressed how empty her life was, I feel like I'm lying to everyone by pretending to be happy on the outside. A jewellery designer who works with K-pop stars, including Sulli, said that receiving threats and angry mail is normal for many idols.    Culture  K-pop artists are frequently referred to as idols or idol groups. Groups usually have a leader, who is often the eldest or most experienced member and speaks for the group. The youngest group member is called the maknae Korean: 막내; RR: mangnae; lit. the youngest in a family.     Industry-specific expressions     Appeal and fan base     Events     International tours     Conventions and music festivals   2003–2018: Korean Music Festival at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles 2011–present: K-POP World Festival in South Korea 2012–present: KCON in California 2015–present: KCON in New York and Japan With the rise of the popularity of K-pop globally, K-pop groups and idols' appearances at internationally recognized music festivals is becoming more and more regular.  2022: J-Hope at Lollapalooza first K-pop act to headline 2023: Blackpink at Coachella first K-pop act to headline 2024: Seventeen at Glastonbury first K-pop act to perform on the Pyramid Stage    Impact and popularity     Foreign relations  On May 25, 2010, South Korea responded to the alleged North Korean sinking of a navy ship by broadcasting 4Minute's single HuH across the DMZ. In response, North Korea affirmed its decision to destroy any speakers set up along the border. That year, The Chosun Ilbo reported that the Ministry of National Defense had considered setting up large TV screens across the border to broadcast music videos by several popular K-pop girl groups such as Girls' Generation, Wonder Girls, After School, Kara and 4Minute as part of psychological warfare against North Korea. In September 2012, North Korea uploaded a video with a manipulated image of South Korean president Park Geun-hye performing the dance moves of Gangnam Style. The video labeled her as a devoted admirer of the Yusin system of autocratic rule set up by her father, Park Chung Hee.Since the early 2010s, several political leaders have acknowledged the global rise of Korean pop culture, most notably U.S. President Barack Obama, who made an official visit to South Korea in 2012 and mentioned the strong influences of social media networks, adding that it was no wonder so many people around the world have caught the Korean wave, Hallyu. A few months later, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon delivered a speech in front of the National Assembly of South Korea, where he noted South Korea's great global success in the fields of culture, sports and the arts, before pointing out that the Korean Wave was making its mark on the world. This occurred a few days after U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland remarked in a daily press briefing that her daughter loves Korean pop, which sparked a media frenzy in South Korea after a journalist from the country's publicly funded Yonhap News Agency arranged an interview with Nuland and described Nuland's teenage daughter as crazy about Korean music and dance. In November 2012, the British Minister of State for the Foreign Office, Hugo Swire, addressed a group of South Korean diplomats at the House of Lords, where he emphasized the close ties and mutual cooperation shaping South Korea–United Kingdom relations and added: As 'Gangnam Style' has demonstrated, your music is global too. In February 2013, the Vice President of Peru, Marisol Espinoza, gave an interview with South Korea's Yonhap News Agency, where she voiced her desire for more South Korean companies to invest in her country and named K-pop as one of the main factors that made Peruvian people wanting to get to know South Korea more. According to an article published by the international relations magazine Foreign Policy, the spread of Korean popular culture across Southeast Asia, parts of South America, and parts of the Middle East are illustrating how the gradual cessation of European colonialism is giving way and making room for unexpected soft power outside of the Western world. On the other hand, an article published by The Quietus magazine expressed concern that discussions about Hallyu as a form of soft power seems to bear a whiff of the old Victorian fear of Yellow Peril. In August 2016, China proceeded to restrict Korean media, including K-pop, to protest South Korea's of deployment of U.S. THAAD systems. The move, which lasted until 2017, had a negative impact on the shares of Korean talent agencies, although prices later recovered. On April 1, 2018, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un hosted a K-pop concert in Pyongyang.    See also     Notes     References     Bibliography     External links  Korean Wave,The Korean Wave, or hallyu Korean: 한류; , refers to the rapid global rise in South Korean popular culture since the 1990s. It is led by the spread of K-pop, K-dramas, and films, with key successes including K-Pop groups BTS and Blackpink, the Oscar-winning film Parasite 2019, the Netflix television series Squid Game. The Korean Wave has been recognized as a form of soft power and a significant economic asset for South Korea, generating revenue through cultural exports and tourism.  Following the 1997 Asian financial crisis and the end of military censorship over the South Korean entertainment industry, the country emerged as a major exporter of popular culture. The growth of satellite media in the late 1990s helped spread K-dramas and Korean cinema across East Asia and parts of Southeast Asia. Chinese journalists coined the term Korean Wave Chinese: 韩流; pinyin: hánliú in 1999 to describe the growing popularity of South Korean cultural products.. During the 2000s, hallyu expanded into Southeast Asia, South Asia, the Middle East, and Eastern Europe. By 2008, South Korea's cultural exports surpassed its cultural imports for the first time. The rise of social media and global internet platforms helped the Korean entertainment industry reach overseas audiences and gain support from the South Korean government.    Etymology  The term hallyu 한류; 韓流 is a neologism composed of two root words: han 한; 韓, meaning Korean, and ryu 류; 流, meaning flow, wave, or trend. On 19 November 1999, Beijing Youth Daily published the first known use of the term Korean Wave Chinese: 韩流; pinyin: hánliú; lit. 'Korean wave' in an article describing the zeal of Chinese audiences for Korean TV dramas and pop songs. Other terms used at the time included Korean tide, Korean heat, and Korean wind. In China, the term Han fever was also used, comparing the phenomenon to the avian flu pandemic in the country. The term entered common usage following the airing of the romance K-drama Winter Sonata, which was particularly successful in Japan. Hallyu refers to the international diffusion of South Korean culture since the 1990s, following the end of military rule and the liberalization of the popular culture industry. The term primarily refers to the spread of Korean television, pop music, film, and fashion, but can also include animation, video games, technology, literature, cosmetics, and food. While the first generation of hallyu in the late 1990s to early 2000s remained confined to Asia and referred to the popularity of Korean dramas and film on the continent, the second generation, or hallyu 2.0, was driven primarily by the popularity of K-pop distributed on online platforms like YouTube. Both hallyu and Korean Wave were added to the Oxford English Dictionary in 2021.    Background  Under the military dictatorship of Park Chung Hee, South Korean mass media underwent a process of rapid expansion, despite facing increasing control and censorship from the government. As part of Park's development plans, the first commercial radio and television stations opened in the early 1960s and were subject to strict censorship under the Broadcasting Ethics Committee Korean: 방송윤리위원회. This brief expansion ended in 1972, when Park enacted the Yushin Constitution which broadly expanded his powers and codified his de facto dictatorial rule. The enactment of the Yushin Constitution coincided with a broad crackdown on the South Korean culture industry against what Park alleged was the influence of foreign decadent culture. Following Park's death and the 1979 coup d'état of December Twelfth, the military regime of Chun Doo-hwan enacted additional restrictions over the media. In 1980, Chun forced the merger of all 29 private broadcasters into the state-owned Korean Broadcasting System KBS and Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation MBC, creating a state-led media monopoly. As a part of the decolonization process in South Korea, imports of all Japanese media were banned in 1945. Despite this ban, Japanese media was still widely distributed and pirated in South Korea, with both state broadcasters and individual bootleggers being found guilty of illegal importation. The signing of the Japan–South Korea Joint Declaration of 1998 ended this ban, and it was gradually lifted across four stages between 1998 and 2004. To protect the South Korean culture industry, the South Korean Ministry of Culture received a substantial budget increase, allowing for the creation of hundreds of culture industry departments in universities nationwide. It has justified its financial support for hallyu, which it estimated to be worth US$83.2 billion in 2012, by linking it to South Korea's export-driven economy.    First generation  The first generation of the Korean Wave, also called hallyu 1.0, was the initial rise in popularity of Korean popular culture within nearby Asian countries. The first generation began in China during the late 1990s, and consisted primarily of the spread of Korean television programming.    Television in the first generation   In 1990, the National Assembly granted a broadcasting license to the regional Seoul Broadcasting System SBS, becoming the first private television station since the forced nationalization of private broadcasters in 1980. In December 1991, the National Assembly passed the Cable Television Act which directed the Ministry of Information to provide permits to twenty prospective cable television program providers. The providers were selected in August 1993, and cable television services began in March, 1995. With the liberalization of the South Korean television market, a greater number of Korean programs started to be exported abroad. These media exports were first exported to China, after the two countries formally established diplomatic relations in 1992. Although Jealousy 1992 was the first K-drama broadcast on China Central Television CCTV, the 1997 broadcasts of the K-drama First Love and Star in My Heart in China are generally considered the start of the Korean Wave. Compounding the foreign interest in Korean television programs, countries throughout East Asia began opening their television markets to foreign countries in the 1980s and 1990s. In the early 1970s, imported television programs made up less than 1 percent of all airtime on CCTV, while by the late 1990s, that number would rise to 20–30 percent. In Vietnam, Korean television made up more than half of all imported programming in 1988. The 1997 Asian financial crisis led broadcasters throughout East Asia to seek cheaper programs as an alternative to the expensive, but popular broadcasts from Japan. In 2000, K-dramas were a quarter of the price of Japanese television programs and a tenth of the price of Hong Kong television programs. K-dramas first entered the Taiwanese market during the early 1990s, but the shift to Korean television programming following the financial crisis and the successful airing of Fireworks 2000 and Autumn in My Heart 2000 marked the start of the Korean Wave in the country. The 2003 historical K-drama Jewel in the Palace has been credited for having the greatest impact on the popularity of Korean television programs in Chinese-speaking countries, including Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, and China. In May 2005, the show's final episode became the highest-rated television episode in Hong Kong history at more than 40 percent. In the years following its release, the program was exported to over 80 countries around the world. At the same time, the 2003–2004 airing of the romance K-drama Winter Sonata in Japan marked the entrance of the Korean Wave to Japan. Winter Sonata achieved a cult following in Japan among women in their 30s, particularly around the show's lead actor Bae Young-joon. This would lead Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi to exclaim in 2004 that Bae Yong-joon is more popular than I am in Japan. Following the broadcast, stereotypes of Korea in Japan changed dramatically and tourism from Japan to South Korea would spike, primarily among Japanese women. In the Indian state of Manipur, Hindi-language movies and television channels were banned in 2000 by insurgents, leading broadcasters to use Korean programming as substitutes. Korean dramas and films were also commonly smuggled into the region in the form of CDs and DVDs. By the late 2000s, K-dramas became part of the daily programming of local television channels across East Asia and in China, Korean programs made up more than all other foreign programming combined. During the period between 1997 and 2007, television exports from South Korea would increase from $8.3 million to $151 million, mostly to other Asian markets. As the volume of Korean cultural imports rapidly increased, China's State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television responded with a decision to restrict and limit the number of Korean TV dramas shown to Chinese audiences. In Taiwan, the National Communications Commission asked cable channels to reduce the number of prime time hours allocated to Korean programming. In addition, in response to the popularity of Jewel in the Palace, director Zhang Guoli and actor Jackie Chan both called on domestic audiences to resist Korean Wave.    Film in the first generation  In 1966, military dictator Park Chung Hee established screen quotas that restricted the number of foreign films shown in cinemas, intended to protect the Korean film industry from Hollywood blockbusters. However, in 1986, the Motion Pictures Exporters Association of America filed a complaint to the United States Senate regarding the restrictions imposed by the South Korean government. Under US pressure and despite fierce opposition from the domestic film industry, in 1988, the Korean government lifted restrictions that required foreign films to be distributed by domestic companies. In 1988, 20th Century Fox became the first American film studio to set up a distribution office in South Korea, followed by Warner Brothers in 1989, Columbia in 1990, and Disney in 1993. By 1994, domestic films reached a record low market share of just 15.4 percent, with commentators predicting the demise of the Korean film industry in the near-future. As well, negotiations for the Uruguay Round Agreements Act concluded in 1994, requiring South Korea to liberalize its communications and culture markets. In response to these crises, the National Assembly instituted the Cultural Industry Bureau within the Ministry of Culture and Sports and passed the Motion Picture Promotion Law in 1995, providing tax incentives for film production. These incentives were successful in attracting a number of chaebols to the film industry, but these ventures were financially unsuccessful, and most disbanded following the 1997 Asian financial crisis. In January 1999, the Samsung Entertainment Group announced its dissolution and released its final film Shiri in February of that year. But despite the withdrawal of Samsung from the industry, Shiri set box office records in South Korea and achieved commercial success in Hong Kong and Japan, a rare feat for the time. Shiri had been funded partly through venture capital, and the success of the film led to a 1999 revision of the Motion Picture Promotion Law to allow individuals to finance film productions. This influx of capital would fund hundreds of Korean films and dramatically increase their budgets, with average costs per production rising from 0.9 billion won in 1995 to 42 billion won in 2004. The 2001 film My Sassy Girl achieved box office success in Hong Kong and Japan, and was the subject of multiple foreign remakes.    Music in the first generation   Prior to the mid-1990s, South Korean music was largely devoid of foreign interest. While SK, Daewoo, and Samsung had expanded into the South Korean music industry during the mid-1990s, under similar circumstances to the South Korean film industry, the 1997 Asian financial crisis abruptly ended these ventures. This vacuum was filled by SM Entertainment founded by Lee Soo-man in 1995, YG Entertainment founded by Yang Hyun-seok of Seo Taiji and Boys in 1996, and JYP Entertainment founded by R&B singer Park Jin-young in 1997. K-pop first gained popularity in China after the 1997 radio program Seoul Music Room began broadcasting in Beijing. The debuts of BoA in 2000, Rain in 2002, TVXQ in 2003, Super Junior in 2005, BigBang in 2006, and Wonder Girls and Girls' Generation in 2007 were major breakthroughs for K-pop in Asia. BoA became the first South Korean pop star to break into the Japanese market with the release of her album Listen to My Heart 2002, following the fall of barriers that had restricted the import and export of entertainment between the countries since the end of World War II. During the 2008 fiscal year, 68 percent of all K-pop exports from South Korea were exported to Japan.    Second generation   Hallyu 2.0 or the New Korean Wave refers to the second generation of the Korean Wave, beginning in 2008. This generation is characterized by the spread of Korean popular culture through social media and the transition to K-pop as the primary South Korean cultural export. The period marked the rapid expansion of the South Korean music, animation, and online gaming industries and a shift in government policy, from indifference to enthusiastic support, under the Lee Myung-bak and Park Geun-hye administrations. The mid-2000s marked the expansion of the Korean Wave outside of East Asia into other parts of Asia, while the mid-2010s marked the Korean Wave's expansion outside of Asia into Europe, the Americas, and Africa. During this period, social media and platforms like YouTube, Netflix, Disney, and Webtoon played a key role in the dissemination of South Korean popular culture. Since the mid-2010s, the rising success of K-pop groups abroad have become characteristic of the Korean Wave. These successes were led by the meteoric rise of the music video for Psy's Gangnam Style. According to a poll conducted by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism during the COVID-19 pandemic, Crash Landing on You, It's Okay to Not Be Okay, and The World of the Married were the three most popular television programs internationally. In the United States, the Korean Wave spread outwards from Korean-American communities, most notably in New York City and Los Angeles. Since September 2022, the Victoria and Albert Museum has hosted the exhibition Hallyu The Korean Wave, showcasing the history of the Korean Wave in fashion, music, dance, and art. Min Jin Lee, the author of the novel Pachinko, credited the Korean Wave for her success.    Government policy   The success of South Korean cultural products in Asia has led some governments to pass measures to protect their own cultural industries. China made specific efforts to stem the flow of Korean films and dramas into their countries, hurting their sales. This motivated the South Korean cultural industry to break into markets outside of Asia. Prior to the 1990s, the Korean government prioritized funding traditional forms of Korean culture over contemporary Korean pop culture. However, in 1993 the government shifted to a policy of cultural commercialization, incorporating cultural products as economic exports. In 1999, the National Assembly passed the Basic Law for Promoting Cultural Industries which provided government support for Korean cultural products.    The Internet  Since the 2000s, the Korean Wave has transformed from a phenomenon driven primarily by satellite broadcasts to one driven by social media and the Internet. Foreign-language subtitles of K-dramas and real-time translations of K-pop performances on the Internet broadened the scope of Korean pop culture. YouTube has enabled fans to connect with K-pop through their own content, such as dance covers and reaction videoschannels. The creation of remakes on YouTube acted as consumer-generated advertising and helped propel the virality of Gangnam Style.    Music in the second generation   YouTube and other online video platforms played an important role in expanding the international popularity K-pop. Asia Today, reported that global attention began in the late 2000s with groups such as Wonder Girls, followed by artists like BigBang, 2NE1, Blackpink, and BTS who went on to break multiple Billboard records, one after another. K-pop gained further visibility in 2012 why Psy's Gangnam Style became the first YouTube video to reach one billion views in December of that year, marking a major turning point for Korean music abroad. In the 2010s and 2020s, groups such as BTS and Blackpink continued to achieve worldwide success through global tours, appearances at major award shows, and other foreign events. BTS won twelve Billboard Music Awards, eleven American Music Awards, and received five nominations at the Grammy Awards. BTS sold out four concerts at SoFi Stadium in Los Angeles in 2021. Blackpink's Born Pink World Tour in 2022–23 became the highest-grossing tour by an Asian act in history, and the group was the first Asian act to headline Coachella in 2023. Blackpink member Rosé earned three Grammy Award nominations and became the first K-pop act to be nominated in a Big Four category as a lead artist.  Collaborations between Korean and international artists increased during this period, including BTS with Steve Aoki, Psy with Snoop Dogg, and Rosé with Bruno Mars. As K-pop's global reach expanded, success abroad no longer depended on domestic popularity, and international audiences became the largerst consumers of the genre. In today's world, K-pop continues to thrive through short-form content, TikTok challenges, and global fan engagement platforms that let fans participate in real-time streaming, voting, and album promotions. These digital tools, along with emerging technologies like virtual performances and AI-generated remixes, have helped K-pop remain influential in today's global music landscape.    Television in the second generation  Since the mid-2000s, the three major South Korean broadcast television networks, KBS, MBC, and SBS, have faced increasing competition from comprehensive television networks with integrated production teams. The second generation of the Korean Wave produced a number of innovative television programs, including the absurd romantic comedy My Love from the Star, the reality variety show Running Man, the live audition programs like Superstar K. The 2006 historical K-drama Jumong was hugely successful in Turkey, Romania, and Iran, where it achieved nationwide ratings of 80 to 90 percent. The 2019 K-drama Kingdom was highly successful in India. During the COVID-19 pandemic in India, streaming services in India saw a dramatic rise in interest for Korean-language programming. Korean Wave also has had a significant impact on Pakistan, particularly among the youth during the COVID era.    Film in the second generation  During the first generation of the Korean Wave, Korean films that were exported abroad were primarily consumed in other Asian countries. Through online streaming services like Netflix, the South Korean entertainment industry has been able to expand outside of East Asia. The 2019 black comedy thriller film Parasite won several awards at international film festivals, including four Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and Best International Film. An analysis of Omdia data presented by research firm PlumResearch found that, in the first quarter of 2023, locally produced Korean Netflix originals accounted for nearly 68% of all hours watched for the platform’s original titles in South Korea. Parasite also made history as the first non-English language film to win the Academy Award for Best Picture. In 2025, the American animated movie KPop Demon Hunters became the most viewed movie on Netflix and a summer pop-culture hit.    Manhwa   Manhwa, the Korean term for comics, first gained popularity outside of Korea during the early 2000s when manhwa were first became available on the Internet. The term manhwa is derived from the Korean word manhwa 만화, which can be translated to comics or cartoons. It encompasses a wide range of genres and styles, similar to its Japanese counterpart, manga. During the 2010s, the format would undergo a revitalization as a result of webtoons, which provided the medium a smartphone-optimized layout and room to skirt South Korea's censorship standards.  Modern Manhwa has extended its reach to many other countries. Korean companies like Naver, Kakao, and Lezhin that host webtoons have expanded globally and have begun to offer their titles in different languages.  These comics have branched outside of Korea by access of Webtoons and have created an impact that has resulted in some movie and television show adaptations. The Korean Manhwa industry has undergone significant changes from 1910 to the present, facing various challenges along the way. In the early years, the impact of Japanese colonial rule and the aftermath of the Korean War led to heavy government intervention from the 1950s to the 1970s. This intervention, driven by concerns for political stability, resulted in censorship and negative societal views, limiting the industry's growth during that period. Fast forward to the 2000s-2010s, a notable shift occurred with the rise of webtoons and educational manhwa. Webtoons, thriving on digitization and online platforms, gained international acclaim. Educational manhwa also played a positive role in children's education, reducing business risks and reshaping the industry. Globalization and digitization further boosted success, allowing Korean animation series and webtoons to capture diverse audiences worldwide. The need for a business-friendly environment with less government intervention, coupled with a shift in societal perceptions to recognize manhwa as a dynamic and creative industry was the key to this change. Recognizing historical challenges was crucial for crafting effective policies to propel the Korean manhwa industry into a vibrant and globally competitive landscape.    Popularity and impact     Sociocultural   Korean pop culture is very popular in Taiwan, and an increasing number of Taiwanese are learning Korean language. In Taiwan, where the drama Jewel in the Palace was extremely popular, some fans reportedly underwent cosmetic surgery to look like lead actress Lee Young-ae. The United States Modern Language Association reported that the number of university students learning Korean doubled between 2006 and 2016. In 2020, Korean became the fastest growing foreign language in Mexico and United States. The South Korean Ministry of Education attributed this rise in interest in the Korean language as a product of the Korean Wave. The Korean Wave has influenced a large number of British university students to pursue Korean language degrees. In India, millennials and members of Generation Z are the most interested in the Korean Wave. On May 31, 2022, BTS visited US President Joe Biden at the White House to discuss the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes.    Economic  In 2004, KBS sold its K-drama Spring Waltz to eight Asian countries during its pre-production stage two years before its release. The Korean Wave popularized Korean snacks in Kazakhstan, Pakistan, China, Vietnam, Russia, India, and the United States. The Korean Wave has resulted in the rise in popularity of Korean ramyeon overseas, with the noodles being prominently featured in K-dramas and films. Product placement, a common feature of K-dramas, has fueled interest in India into a variety of brands featured on these shows. Korean fashion, music, and television have been adopted by teenagers in Kashmir, despite concerns by older generations over the erasure of traditional Kashmiri culture.    Relations with North Korea  Per the Law on Rejecting Reactionary Ideology and Culture, consuming, possessing or distributing South Korean products is illegal in North Korea, with penalties ranging from forced labour to prison camp to death. In North Korea, the Korean Wave is called the nam-Joseon baram Korean: 남조선 바람; lit. South Joseon wind. In June 2007, the film Hwang Jin Yi, adapted from a novel by a North Korean author, became the first South Korean production to be made available for public viewing in North Korea. A 2010 survey of 33 North Korean defectors by the Korea Institute for National Unification found that shows like Winter Sonata played a significant role in shaping the decision of the defectors to flee to the South. The institute also stated that some North Koreans near the Korean Demilitarized Zone reportedly tampered with their televisions to receive signals from South Korean stations, while on the northern border, CDs and DVDs were commonly smuggled in from China. A 2012 survey by the institute of 100 North Korean defectors reported that South Korean media was prevalent among the North Korean elite. It also re-affirmed that North Koreans living near the northern border had the highest degree of access to South Korean entertainment. Notels, a type of Chinese portable media player introduced to North Korea in 2005, have been credited for proliferating Korean media in the North. In October 2012, Supreme Leader Kim Jong Un gave a speech to the Korean People's Army in which he vowed to extend the fight against the enemy's ideological and cultural infiltration. A US State Department-commissioned study earlier that year concluded that North Korea was increasingly anxious to restrict the flow of information, but were struggling to contain the substantial demand for South Korean movies and television programs and the intensely entrepreneurial smugglers on the Chinese side of the border.  On 15 May 2013, the NGO Human Rights Watch found that entertainment shows from South Korea are particularly popular and have served to undermine the North Korean government's negative portrayals of South Korea. In 2020, North Korea passed the Law on Rejecting Reactionary Ideology and Culture, which imposes penalty ranging from forced labor to death for those that want to keep or distribute cultural materials, such as TV programs, books and songs from hostile countries, including as South Korea. In 2021, Kim Jong Un called K-pop a vicious cancer that serves to undermine the North Korean government. Kim further warned that South Korean entertainment was having a grave influence on young North Koreans and emphasized the necessity of stamping out capitalist tendencies. In a leaked document obtained by Asia Press, Kim Jong Un deemed North Korean women who call their date oppa or yobo instead of comrade perverted. The documents warned that those who were caught using the language would be expelled from their city. In 2023, North Korea passed the Pyongyang Cultural Language Protection Act, which criminalizes the use of South Korean-style language and expressions by North Koreans, including using oppa to refer to non-relatives, with a maximum penalty of death.    Tourism  The airing of Winter Sonata in Japan led to a rise in tourism to South Korea and dramatically shifted the demographics of Japanese tourism to South Korea, from primarily Japanese men on kisaeng tours to young Japanese women. South Korea's tourism industry has been greatly influenced by the increasing popularity of its media. According to Korean Culture and Information Service Kocis, yearly tourism figures have increased from 5.32 million visitors in 2000 to 11.03 million visitors in 2023. The Korean Tourism Organization has recognized the Korean Wave as a significant pull factor for tourists, and launched a tourism campaign in 2014 entitled Imagine your Korea that highlighted Korean entertainment. Many fans of Korean television dramas are also motivated to travel to Korea, frequently visiting filming locations like Nami Island, featured in Winter Sonata, and Dae Jang Geum Theme Park. The majority of these tourists were women. According to the KTO, more than 100,000 Indians traveled to South Korea in 2018, with the number of Indian tourists rising steadily each year.    Impact of hallyu on South Korean tourism   The Korean Wave has significantly influenced the global popularity of South Korean culture, particularly through K-dramas and K-pop, driving increased tourism in the country. The strategic initiatives implemented by the government and tourism industry have capitalized on this trend to enhance the country's economic landscape and cultural diplomacy on the global stage. Hallyu-related sectors such as cosmetics, fashion, tourism, and education have seen substantial economic contributions, with cultural exports contributing to a 0.2% increase in South Korea's GDP in 2004, escalating remarkably to $12.3 billion by 2019. These figures underscore the profound impact of the Korean Wave on the economy, largely driven by tourism. This growth is supported by a study showing a robust correlation coefficient of 0.89 for hallyu products, significantly higher than 0.44 for non-hallyu products, indicating the strong economic influence of cultural exports. Recognizing the global appeal of hallyu, the government launched the Visit Korea Year 2023–2024. This initiative features a series of events and promotions to attract tourists, including K-pop concerts, cultural festivals, and significant discounts on travel and accommodations. The Korea Tourism Organization KTO also hosts international roadshows and eco-friendly activities to promote cultural and environmental awareness. More details are available on the VISITKOREA website, which provides updates on upcoming events and offers. Digital technologies also play a crucial role in tourism strategies. Live streaming, for example, has emerged as a strategic tool, significantly influencing viewer engagement through parasocial interactions, where viewers feel a sense of friendship and trust with streamers. This enhances viewer loyalty and encourages more visits, illustrating the shift towards digital engagement in tourism marketing. The Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Korea Tourism Organization appoints globally-known South Korean figures as honorary ambassadors for their campaigns. They have included boy group BTS, actor Lee Jung-jae, and girl group NewJeans. Actor Park Bo-gum, described by the official web portal of the South Korean government as a hallyu superstar was appointed as honorary ambassador in 2025.    Foreign relations  The Korean Wave has been acknowledged by various heads of state and government, including Chinese paramount leader Hu Jintao and Premier Wen Jiabao, US President Barack Obama, Indian President Ram Nath Kovind, and Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard. The phenomenon has also been acknowledged by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, US Secretary of State John Kerry, Afghan Deputy Foreign Minister Meerwais Nab, New Zealand Deputy Secretary of Foreign Affairs and Trade Andrea Smith, the French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs, the German Federal Foreign Office, and UK Foreign Office Minister Hugo Swire. A 2018–2019 survey conducted by the Korean Culture and Information Service found that the Korean Wave was a key factor in global perceptions of South Korea.    Taiwan  The Korean Wave positively impacted perceptions of South Korea in Taiwan. Taiwanese people's favorable impression of South Korea continues to increase significantly, which also makes the relationship between South Korea and Taiwan very close.    India  Korean culture has become increasingly popular in India, particularly in the northeast, where people feel somewhat alienated from the rest of India and have some similarities to Koreans. Hallyu began to impact Indian pop culture trends around the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the Korea Institute for International Economic Policy. The amount of hallyu content has increased for nearly all content types when compared to pre-pandemic times. The majority of consumers are young females. India and Korea have hosted cultural events at each other's embassies, with their leaders looking to increase cultural ties.    Japan  The Korean Wave, began to gain traction in Japan around the late 1990s and early 2000s. This initial surge was largely due to efforts by Japanese Prime Minister Obuchi Keizo and Korean President Kim Dae-jung, who aimed to foster a future-oriented relationship between the two countries. As part of this initiative, South Korea lifted its unilateral restrictions on the import of Japanese cultural products in 1998, leading to increased cultural exchanges between the two nations. A relevant policies, which was the Open Door Policy implemented by South Korea from 1998 to 2004 played a significant role in facilitating the spread of hallyu in Japan. This policy aimed to liberalize South Korea's cultural industry and promote cultural exports. On November 2, 2021, data released by KOCCA, underscores a remarkable surge in the export of Korean video content to Japan. In 2021, the export value soared to $1.81 billion approximately 2.46 trillion won, representing a substantial 50 percent increase from the previous year's figure of $1.21 billion approximately 1.64 trillion won. This significant growth reflects the escalating popularity and demand for Korean video content within the Japanese market.    China  Throughout 2016 and 2017, China implemented various restrictions on Korean cultural and economic imports as retaliation for the installation of the THAAD missile defense system, which it considers a risk to its national security. During this time, many Chinese-Korean television productions were paused and Korean television programs, the streaming of K-pop videos, and imports of various Korean cosmetics were restricted by the government. A number of Korean artists had their visas denied and appearances canceled, although the Chinese government officially stated that their visa policy had not changed. In March 2017, the China National Tourism Administration issued a ban on group tours to South Korea by Chinese travel agencies. These bans resulted in significant financial losses for the South Korean entertainment industry with share prices of SM Entertainment falling 18 percent, a loss of $150 million, and share prices of YG Entertainment falling 32 percent, a loss of $230 million. On 31 October 2017, the two governments announced a settlement regarding the THAAD dispute. Following the agreement, many large Chinese online video platforms began importing Korean dramas again, Chinese travel agencies restarted group tours to South Korea, and Korean bands made appearances in Chinese TV shows.    Middle East and North Africa  Since the mid-2000s, Iran, Morocco and Egypt and Algeria have emerged as major consumers of Korean culture. Following the success of Korean dramas in the Middle East & North Africa, the Korean Overseas Information Service made Winter Sonata available with Arabic subtitles and the program was broadcast on several state-run Egyptian television networks. The Korean government's support for the Korean cultural exports in the Middle East are part of greater efforts to improve the country's image in the region. The Middle East Broadcasting Channel MBC4 played a major role in increasing the Korean Wave's popularity in the Middle East and North Africa. Beginning in 2012, MBC4 hosted a series of Korean dramas, including Boys Over Flowers, You're Beautiful, Dream High and Coffee Prince. The imports of these programs were sometimes criticized out of the fear they would lead to Islamic youth to abandon traditional values.    Egypt  Autumn in My Heart, one of the earliest Korean dramas brought over to the Middle East, was broadcast after five months of persistent negotiations between the South Korean embassy and an Egyptian state-run broadcasting company. Perceptions of South Korea in Egypt, which were undermined by the country's involvement in the Iraq War, were positively impacted following the screening of Autumn in My Heart in the country.    Iran   A number of K-dramas have been aired by Iran's state broadcaster, Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting IRIB in prime-time slots. Unlike Western productions, South Korean programs tend to satisfy the conservative criteria set by the Iranian Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance. In October 2012, representatives for the IRIB visited South Korea to visit filming locations in an effort to strengthen cultural affinities between the two countries and to seek avenues for further cooperation between KBS and IRIB.    Pakistan  The Korean Wave has gained popularity in Pakistan, especially among youth, through K-dramas, K-pop, and Korean beauty products. Cultural exchanges, such as K-pop competitions, film screenings, concerts organized by the South Korean embassy, have strengthened ties and sparked interest in the Korean language. Notably, the K-pop Concert Night hosts by Korean embassy featuring the band Gaon was held at Al Hamra Art Center in Lahore on December 10, 2023, drawing significant attention from fans.    Israel and Palestine  Some commentators have hoped that the popularity of Korean culture across Israel and Palestine may serve as a bridge over the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. The Hebrew University of Jerusalem reported that some Israeli and Palestinian K-pop fans see themselves as cultural missionaries and actively introduce K-pop to their friends and relatives, further spreading the Korean Wave within their communities.    Criticism   In parts of China and Japan, the Korean Wave has been met with backlash and comparisons to cultural imperialism. In China and Japan, the Korean Wave has frequently been described as a cultural invasion and restrictions have limited the number of Korean TV dramas shown to Chinese audiences. At the Tai Ke Rock Concert in August 2005, a musician performed the racist and misogynistic rap The Invasion of the Korean Wave attacking actor Bae Yong-joon, female Taiwanese musicians, and the Korean Wave. In addition, backlash to K-pop is common on the internet, where it is criticized for superficiality, heteronomy, or vulgarity. Backlash against the Korean Wave can be rooted in nationalism or historical conflicts. The K-pop industry has been criticized for its promotion of sexualized Asian stereotypes.    Mistreatment of artists  The South Korean entertainment industry has faced repeated claims of mistreatment towards its musical artists. A series of high-profile suicides by Korean actors and idols highlighted the industry's harsh working conditions.    Historical accuracy  Korean historical dramas have been increasingly scrutinized by Korean viewers for historical negationism and otherwise inaccurate portrayals of Korean history, leading to boycotts and the cancellation of shows such as Snowdrop and Joseon Exorcist.    Cultural and moral opposition  K-pop boy bands and their fans have been the targets of a variety of racist, misogynistic, and homophobic attacks purporting that the bands promote homosexuality and feminine men. In February 2021, Matthias Matuschik, a radio presenter for the German radio station Bayern 3, came under attack for declaring BTS were some crappy virus that hopefully there will be a vaccine for soon. On 1 September 2021, a billboard of Jungkook from BTS was taken down in Pakistan after the billboard purportedly received complaints for promoting homosexuality and using the word ARMY, in conflict with the Pakistan Army. In November 2021, a group calling themselves Team Copyright based in Bangladesh took down a number of Twitter accounts associated with the BTS fandom through false copyright claims over allegations that the band promotes atheism and homosexuality. K-pop and K-pop idols have been criticized for promoting unhealthy attitudes around weight in Indian adolescents.    Japan  Anti-Korean sentiment in Japan has sparked a number of far-right nationalist street protests demonstrating against the import of South Korean entertainment products. The anti-Korean comic, Manga Kenkanryu Hating the Korean Wave was published on 26 July 2005 and was widely sold in Japan. According to a Korea Times article posted in February 2014, Experts and observers in Korea and Japan say while attendance at the rallies is still small and such extreme actions are far from entering the mainstream of Japanese politics, the hostile demonstrations have grown in size and frequency in recent months.    See also     Citations     References     External links   Start Here: Your Guide To Getting Into K-Pop 2020, by NPR KPop Demon Hunters,KPop Demon Hunters is a 2025 American animated musical urban fantasy film directed by Maggie Kang and Chris Appelhans from a screenplay they co-wrote with Danya Jimenez and Hannah McMechan. Produced by Sony Pictures Animation for Netflix, the film stars the voices of Arden Cho, Ahn Hyo-seop, May Hong, Ji-young Yoo, Yunjin Kim, Daniel Dae Kim, Ken Jeong, and Lee Byung-hun. The film follows a K-pop girl group, Huntrix, who lead double lives as demon hunters; they face off against a rival boy band, the Saja Boys, whose members are secretly demons. KPop Demon Hunters originated from Kang's desire to create a story inspired by her Korean heritage, drawing on elements of mythology, demonology, and K-pop to craft a visually distinct and culturally rooted film. The film was reported to be in production at Sony Pictures Animation by March 2021, with the full creative team attached. The film was animated by Sony Pictures Imageworks and was influenced by concert lighting, editorial photography, and music videos; it was also inspired by anime and Korean dramas. The soundtrack features original songs by several musicians, and a score composed by Marcelo Zarvos. KPop Demon Hunters began streaming on Netflix on June 20, 2025, while a sing-along version of the film received limited theatrical releases from August 23–24 and October 31 – November 2. The film garnered widespread acclaim and was named a cultural phenomenon by several publications, with praise for its animation, visual style, voice acting, writing, and music. It became the most-watched original title in Netflix history with 325 million views, and its sing-along theatrical release was both the widest for a Netflix film and the first to top the box office in the United States, surpassing Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery 2022. The film's soundtrack achieved similar success; it became the first film soundtrack on the Billboard Hot 100 to have four of its songs in the top ten, was certified Platinum by the RIAA in October 2025, and received five Grammy Award nominations. A short film, titled Debut: A KPop Demon Hunters Story, was rated in September by the MPA, while a sequel is planned to be released in 2029.    Plot  Long ago, demons preyed on humans, feeding their souls to their ruler Gwi-Ma. Eventually, three women became demon hunters and used their singing voices to create a magical barrier against demons called the Honmoon. As time passed, new trios of hunters emerged to maintain the Honmoon, with the ultimate goal of strengthening it into the Golden Honmoon—a final seal that would permanently banish demons. In the present, the K-pop girl group Huntrix—composed of Rumi, Mira, and Zoey—are the latest demon-hunting trio, trained by former hunter Celine. Rumi is secretly half-demon, a fact known only to her and Celine, who raised Rumi. Disquieted by the demonic patterns gradually spreading across her skin, Rumi pushes forward the release and live performance of Huntrix's new single, Golden, hoping it will turn the Honmoon gold and thereby erase her patterns. However, as they prepare for the performance, Rumi begins to lose her voice. In the demon world, Gwi-Ma grows enraged at his minions' failures. Led by Jinu, a human-turned-demon, five demons form a boy band called the Saja Boys to steal Huntrix's fans and weaken the Honmoon, in exchange for Gwi-Ma promising to erase Jinu's painful human memories. Watching their debut, Huntrix quickly discover the Saja Boys' demonic nature and later attack them. As they fight, Jinu discovers Rumi's patterns, but helps hide them from her bandmates. Meeting privately, Jinu tells Rumi that feelings of shame enslave demons through voices from Gwi-Ma. He shares with her that 400 years prior, Gwi-Ma granted him fame and recognition that helped his family emerge from poverty, but then condemned him to the demon world; Jinu now lives with guilt over his family's downfall. As the Saja Boys grow more popular, the Honmoon is weakened, allowing more demon attacks to occur. With the Idol Awards approaching, Huntrix rush to produce a new song, Takedown, to expose the Saja Boys. Rumi's discomfort with the song's harsh, demon-hating lyrics strains her relationship with Mira and Zoey. Rumi proposes a plan to Jinu: if he helps Huntrix win the Idol Awards and strengthen the Honmoon, he could freely stay in the human world. Later, Rumi tells Jinu that her shame about her demon heritage weakened her voice, but talking with him healed it. Jinu says that he no longer hears voices, thanks likewise to Rumi, and agrees to sabotage the Saja Boys. Gwi-Ma summons Jinu, reminds him of the truth that he abandoned his family for a life of wealth and comfort, then threatens to amplify the tormenting voices if he reneges on their deal. At the Idol Awards, Huntrix perform Golden, having chosen to shelve Takedown due to the contention it caused between them. However, impostor demons sent by Jinu lure Mira and Zoey away from Rumi, while two other demons impersonate them to trick Rumi into performing Takedown, during which they reveal her demon patterns. She flees the stage and runs into the real Mira and Zoey, who feel betrayed upon learning of her hiding her demon nature and collusion with Jinu from them. Rumi confronts Jinu for tricking her, and he admits to lying about his past. Gwi-Ma, strengthened by the influx of consumed souls and decaying Honmoon, enters the human world and casts a trance over the public, including Mira and Zoey, drawing them to the Saja Boys' performance. A desperate Rumi meets with Celine and asks her to end her life. Celine refuses and discusses plans to restore the status quo. Rumi lashes out at Celine for never fully loving her and repudiates the now-destroyed Honmoon, before abruptly leaving. Rumi interrupts the Saja Boys' performance with an improvised new song addressing her shame and self-acceptance, which breaks Mira and Zoey out of Gwi-Ma's trance. Reunited, Huntrix fight back and free the crowd. A repentant Jinu sacrifices himself to save Rumi from an attack by Gwi-Ma, giving his restored soul to reinforce her; the empowered Huntrix defeat Gwi-Ma and the remaining Saja Boys, re-sealing the demons and creating a new Honmoon. Afterward, no longer ashamed of her patterns, Rumi celebrates with Mira and Zoey, and they later meet their fans in public.    Voice cast   Liza Koshy voices a television host who interviews Huntrix. Maggie Kang, Nathan Schauf, and Charlene Ramos provide additional voices.    Production     Development  Director Maggie Kang first pitched the idea that eventually became KPop Demon Hunters to film producer Aron Warner in 2018, while he was working on the production of Wish Dragon 2021 for Sony Pictures Animation. In March 2021, the film, under the working title K-Pop: Demon Hunters, was announced to be underway at Sony. Kang and Chris Appelhans would direct with writing duo Hannah McMechan and Danya Jimenez writing the script, with Warner and Michelle L. M. Wong serving as producers. Mingjue Helen Chen and Ami Thompson were also announced as production designer and art director, respectively. It was conceived by Kang who wanted to make a film about Korean culture; she delved into mythology and demonology for something that could be visually unique compared to mainstream media. She also called the film her love letter to K-pop and to her Korean background. Kang explained that when developing the history of the demon hunters, they decided to play into Korean shamanism, and specifically the historical usage of song and dance as part of the rituals of Korean shaman women. On character design, Kang emphasized wanting to differentiate the main characters from Marvel female superheroes that were just sexy and cool and badass and instead combine those elements with girls who had potbellies and burped and were crass and silly and fun. She was also influenced by the films of Bong Joon Ho, which combine multiple different tones in a way that, to Kang, gives a feeling of animation to them. She and Appelhans specifically cited Bong's monster movie, The Host 2006, as an inspiration for blending genres and moods. Appelhans later came on board after Kang told him her initial ideas for the film; he planned to take a long break after having directed Wish Dragon 2021. He stated that he always wanted to do a film about the power of music—to unite, bring joy, build community. McMechan and Jimenez were approached to screenwrite for the film by Nicole Perlman; speaking to Variety, McMechan explained that though the two had never done animation before, and we didn't know anything about K-pop, they were exactly what [co-director] Maggie [Kang] had been looking for, with our friendship and us being young girls. The name Huntrix portmanteaus hunter with the Latin feminine agent noun suffix -trix, to evoke the idea of women warriors. The three members of Huntrix were modeled after K-pop girl groups like Itzy, Blackpink, Twice, and 2NE1. The character of Rumi was originally created by Kang and her husband, Radford Sechrist, for Sechrist's comic Plastic Walrus, before later being repurposed and reshaped by Kang for KPop Demon Hunters. The character of Mira was inspired by Korean model Ahn So Yeon professionally known as Ellis Ahn. The Saja Boys were inspired by Korean boy bands such as Tomorrow X Together, BTS, Stray Kids, Ateez, BigBang, and Monsta X. Korean actor and singer Cha Eun-woo was a key influence for Jinu, the group's leader. The names of the members of the Saja Boys, with the exception of Jinu, serve as labels describing different K-pop archetypes. The term Saja dually alludes to the jeoseung saja 저승사자; 監齋使者, a figure in Korean folklore comparable to the Grim Reaper, and to the Korean word for lion, saja 사자; 獅子, with the image of a lion head being used for the Saja Boys' logo, and the band's fandom being referred to as the Pride. Baek Byung-yeul of The Korea Times stated the styling of both groups connects to the past and the present of Korea—the members of Huntrix wear norigae pendants integrated into modern K-pop fashion, while Saja Boys perform in black hanbok and traditional horsehair hats for their song 'Your Idol,' evoking the image of the jeoseung saja. Additionally, Huntrix all wield traditionally Korean weapons. Max Kim of the Los Angeles Times noted the historical nods to Korean artists who are seen today as the progenitors of contemporary K-pop such as the Jeogori Sisters, The Kim Sisters and S.E.S. Kang described the visual journey in the character design such as the Saja Boys starting in a bubble gum pop, very saccharine, super sweet look and shifting darker until they fully take on the appearance of the jeoseung saja. Appelhans commented on the visual storytelling present in Huntrix's performance costuming; the costumes Huntrix wear when performing Golden symbolize their kind of MacGuffin of a dream, aspiring for perfection and irreproachability, with the tearing away of Rumi's costume at the end of the film's second act representing the disruption of that dream. Appelhans further noted this usage of costuming as part of an effort to have the workings of K-pop be reflected within the film in a way that also integrated with the film's plot.    Casting   The castings for the characters' voice actors and singing voices were done at separate times, with the singers being cast earlier. Ejae was originally brought onto the production as a songwriter, before later being offered the role of Rumi's singing voice; in an interview with Genius Korea, Ejae attributed her casting to the directors [getting] used to hearing [her] voice in the demos. Arden Cho, the voice actress for Rumi, initially auditioned for the role of Celine, only subsequently trying out for the role of Rumi due to the encouragement of co-director Maggie Kang. Park Jin-young was initially envisioned for the role of Gwi-Ma, due to the character originally being conceptualized with a more flamboyant and comedic personality. However, this was dropped as the character was developed into a more menacing and traditionally antagonistic figure, leading instead to the casting of Lee Byung-hun. In April 2025, Ji-young Yoo was revealed to star in the film as Zoey. The rest of the cast was announced later that month.    Animation  The film was animated by Sony Pictures Imageworks in both its Vancouver and Montreal facilities with Josh Beveridge as animation director. Appelhans highlighted visual inspiration as being drawn from multiple sources, including music videos, concert stage lighting, editorial photography, Korean dramas, and anime. Kang explained that after watching Sony's Spider-Verse films, which are animated in a hybrid 2D-3D style, it was decided to eschew the use of 2D elements, choosing instead to focus on 3D animation, with faces and the look and feel of anime being particular inspirations for the film's style. Beveridge similarly noted the inspiration of 2D aesthetics but with three-dimensional language, making the film entirely in 3D CGI, and that the film should have a very bold graphic look. Beveridge also highlighted shifting the art style of the characters' faces to reflect the film's tone, from glamorous appearances for more triumphant moments, to more aggressive sequences that feature greater line work and angularity in character faces, to comedic moments in which a more chibi-esque style is used. The first major scene to be animated for the film was the initial encounter between Huntrix and the Saja Boys, which, according to Beveridge, acted as a proof of concept for the character designs. Kang emphasized the crew's effort to authentically represent Korean identity through character animation, such as through eye and mouth shapes. Although the characters speak English, the film's animators designed the characters to use mouth shapes specific to the Korean language while speaking. For action scenes, the filmmakers made use of glitter effects inspired by the South Korean film The Villainess 2017, with Beveridge noting that the effect gave the scenes a feeling of dance-fighting, and with Kang noting that [y]ou can get pretty violent if you put a lot of glitter on.  Hanh Nguyen, for Salon, highlighted that the animation of Jinu's pet tiger and magpie—which the creative team call Derpy and Sussie respectively—are based on minhwa, a type of Korean folk art that was popular during the Joseon period. Images of tigers, magpies, and pine trees are the focus of the Hojak-do genre of minhwa; the portrayal of these animals in the film took cues from the satirical, anti-authority character that Hojak-do took on during the 17th century. Park Han-sol of The Korea Times wrote that minhwa was often whimsical with mischievous details and depictions of tiger and magpie delivered a playful jab at those in power. She commented that the film's gag of the magpie stealing the tiger's hat feels like an affectionate nod to the long-running visual joke. Sechrist was also a story artist for the film and designed the tiger; he explained that the blue color of the tiger's fur possibly originated with production designer Helen Mingjue Chen wanting to make the character feel more magical. Kang commented that Derpy was initially conceived without a clear role in the film; however, they did not want him to be just a sidekick. The team was inspired by a painting by Chen of a tiger statue turning into a real tiger next to an open shirt Jinu, which led to the idea of Derpy being Jinu's pet, eventually becoming a means for Rumi and Jinu to exchange messages and communicate, and then the bird tagged along. Kang also stated that while the animals live between these two worlds, they are not demons, with their nature being left mysterious.    Choreography  The choreography for the dance sequences in the film was worked on by Jam Republic's Jo Na-In, The Black Label's Leejung Lee, and the group K-Tigers. Jo, a South Korean dancer and choreographer, created the sequences for Golden and Takedown. The choreography for How It's Done was done by Lee, and the choreography for Your Idol was done by K-Tigers' Ha Seong-jin; choreography for the Soda Pop sequence was worked on by Lee and Ha. In an interview, Jo stated that she was inspired by Golden itself when developing the choreography for the song indicating that I focused on the storytelling that needed to be conveyed through the animation. I tried to concentrate more on expressing the lyrics and emotions. On the animation aspect, Jo explained that she made the movements bigger and more expansive as well as keeping close attention to details like facial expressions and fingertips to ensure they come across well onscreen. Fight scene choreography was contributed to by K-Tigers, including Taemin–who acted as the film's martial arts director—and Ha Seong-jin. When interviewed, Ha explained that he decided to weave taekwondo elements into [the Saja Boys'] choreography. This way, it could showcase taekwondo not just as sport, but also as something aesthetically powerful. Josh Beveridge when discussing the fight choreography, noted the deliberate dance-fighting feel to the action, explaining that [s]ome of those fight choreographers had done some idol training, and in between the moves, they'd make these cute little adjustments. That is where the personality is.    Music   When comparing the songs of Huntrix and the Saja Boys, Appelhans explained they wanted the Saja Boys' songs to be super catchy, but slightly hollow, like there's no real soul underneath. This is to contrast with the honesty and emotional vulnerability of Huntrix's songs—the idea was that the surface-level part of your heart might be obsessed with the boys, but the deeper part is moved by the girls. Kang and Appelhans sought the expertise of known K-pop producers to develop the film's soundtrack. The film's original songs were written by Danny Chung, Ido, Vince, Kush, Ejae, Jenna Andrews, Stephen Kirk, Lindgren, Mark Sonnenblick, and Daniel Rojas; and produced by Teddy Park, 24, Ido, Dominsuk, Andrews, Kirk, Lindgren, and Ian Eisendrath. Marcelo Zarvos composed the score. The soundtrack also features the voices of Ejae, Audrey Nuna, Rei Ami, Andrew Choi, Kevin Woo, samUIL Lee, Neckwav, and Lea Salonga. The soundtrack was released on June 20, 2025; the lead single Takedown is performed by Jeongyeon, Jihyo and Chaeyoung of Twice. The soundtrack was certified Platinum by the RIAA on October 8, 2025, with sales exceeding 1 million units. In the United States, the soundtrack album holds the highest debut on the Billboard 200 chart for soundtracks released in 2025, debuting at number eight, and is the first soundtrack of 2025 to reach the top ten. The album is also the highest-charting animated film's soundtrack album on the chart since Metro Boomin's Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse 2023 at number seven, as well as the first Netflix soundtrack to reach number one on the Top Soundtracks since Stranger Things: Soundtrack from the Netflix Series, Season 4 2022. The BBC highlighted that Huntrix and the Saja Boys—with Golden and Your Idol respectively—topped the US Spotify chart with Huntrix hitting number two on the chart, surpassing Blackpink as the highest-charting female K-pop group, and the Saja Boys becoming the highest charting male K-pop group in US Spotify history, surpassing BTS. Though the film's two bands are not the first fictional K-pop groups to see virality, outlets such as Entertainment Weekly have commented on the notability of Huntrix and the Saja Boys achieving levels of popularity and charting success rivaling real-world acts. Golden, the album's second single, eventually reached number one on the Billboard Global 200, became the longest-lasting number one song by a fictional act on the US Billboard Hot 100, and in South Korea became the third song in 2025 to achieve a perfect all-kill on the charts, as well as breaking the record for most number of hourly perfect all-kills of all time. Additionally, the film's soundtrack became the first in the history of the Billboard Hot 100 to feature four of its songs in the top ten, which include Golden, Your Idol, Soda Pop, and How It's Done. It is the first film soundtrack since Waiting to Exhale 1995 to feature at least three of its songs in the top 10.    Themes  The film's plot explores the power of community and friendship in overcoming cultural pressures. Arden Cho, who voices Rumi, said, Without Mira and Zoey, she wouldn't have made it. According to the filmmakers, Rumi's arc parallels the experience of coming out, especially in terms of parental and societal expectations. Co-director Maggie Kang noted that the character's journey was deliberately written to mirror the process of revealing one's true self: Rumi's story [is] like she's coming out of the closet and coming clean to her parents who [want] her to be something that she's not. Kang commented that when developing Rumi's story they talked a lot about mixed heritage as well as queer identity, and addiction and falling back into addiction. We kind of described the demon part of you where someone is hiding part of themselves from others. Stephen Thompson of NPR and Taylor Henderson of Out magazine both similarly noted aspects of queer coding and queer allegory within Rumi's story, with Henderson writing that [w]hile there aren't explicitly LGBTQ+ characters in the film, Rumi's struggle feels quite queer-coded. From an early age, Rumi's aunt instructed her to hide that part of herself from the world. The hiding grew into a deep shame, and she holds contempt for the half-demon part of herself. Sulman Aziz Mirza, in Psychiatric News, highlighted the focus on shame, identity, and healing in the film—in particular, Rumi hiding her demonic heritage and patterns isolates Rumi in shame, forcing her to skip bonding rituals like bathhouse visits and ultimately silencing her voice. However, Rumi and Jinu, both burdened by shame, begin to heal through music. Mirza called shame a universal experience so Rumi's patterns could symbolize anything: depression, queerness, trauma, neurodivergence, or being biracial. Writing for The Korean Herald, academic Kim Seong-kon identified the three main themes of the film as: 1. The world is not simply made of good and evil, or angels and demons. 2. Do not be ashamed of differences. 3. Hybridity is a strength, not a weakness. Academics Putu Marvitta Adira Prastiwi and Nissa Puspitaning Adni elaborate on themes of gender equality and female empowerment present in the film, writing [t]he solidarity and emotional support among the Huntrix members form[s] a crucial foundation for building an autonomous and empowering female community, while simultaneously critiquing patriarchal pressures that demanded women hide their imperfections and vulnerabilities. Rumi's internal conflict and rejection of the demand to conceal her true self emphasize[s] the necessity of dismantling oppressive symbolic systems so that women could express themselves fully and authentically.    Release  When the film was first announced by Sony in March 2021, a release timetable was not set. In April 2022, it was first reported that Netflix registered a filing for the film. The film was confirmed to be coming to Netflix in February 2023, in a Business Insider interview with Sony Pictures film CEO Tom Rothman. The release of KPop Demon Hunters on Netflix was the result of a 2021 agreement between Netflix and Sony. According to Matthew Belloni of Puck, this agreement entailed Sony giving Netflix a first look at certain live-action and animated film projects, with Netflix in turn guaranteeing to greenlight a certain number of projects for joint development, which it would release and have control over. Under the terms of this deal, Netflix paid Sony $125 million to cover both the budget for KPop Demon Hunters and a premium worth 25% of the budget; in exchange, Netflix would maintain all film rights, and would not need to pay any profit participation. In June 2024, the film was announced to be released in 2025. In April 2025, it was revealed by an animator that the film would be released in June, while later that month, it was announced for a release date of June 20, 2025. In addition to streaming on Netflix, KPop Demon Hunters had a limited theatrical release at select cinemas in California and New York from June 20–26, 2025. A sing-along version of the film was released theatrically in select theaters in North America, the UK, Australia, and New Zealand from August 23–24, 2025. The sing-along version was subsequently released on Netflix, separately from the original version. The film then had a second theatrical sing-along release from October 31 – November 2. The June 2025 theatrical release was enough to satisfy the eligibility requirements for the Oscars. The subsequent theatrical releases did not meet the requirements to qualify the film for the BAFTA awards, due to the film's British theatrical run occurring two months after the film's streaming release, along with not having enough commercial screenings. The British Academy rejected Netflix's exception appeal; according to Deadline, the film would have qualified if Netflix had released KPop Demon Hunters simultaneously in British theaters and on its streaming platform.    Reception     Box office  The sing-along version of KPop Demon Hunters was released in theaters on August 23, 2025. It debuted in 1,700 theaters, dethroning the 698-theatre release of Netflix's Glass Onion: A Knives Out Mystery 2022. It was initially projected to gross $18 to $20 million during its opening weekend. It was the company's best-performing theatrical release, beating out Glass Onion $13.1 million in 2022. It was the first Netflix film to finish in first place over the weekend. Netflix did not report grosses. In the United States and Canada, KPop Demon Hunters made $19.2 million, ahead of Weapons, which was expected to remain in first during its third weekend. Jeremy Fuster of TheWrap wrote that its theatrical release was set to open higher than the three-day opening weekends of The Bad Guys 2 $22 million and Elio $20.8 million; he said it would have made $100 million domestically had it not first been streamed. Matt Schimkowitz of The A.V. Club wrote that the film's theatrical release drew many moviegoers who had likely streamed it. Ben Fritz of The Wall Street Journal noted that the film's acclaim led Netflix to make it a rare theatrical release. Matthew Belloni of Puck noted that, due to the arrangement between Netflix and Sony for the film's production, most of the profit from the financial success of the film, and from any potentially subsequent franchise, would be accrued by Netflix, as the film's distributor, rather than by Sony. He further commented that for Netflix's film chief Dan Lin, this is a studio chairman's dream: a relatively cheap superhit with a clear runway for exploitation across many businesses, while Sony's film chief Tom Rothman gotta be kicking himself over this one.    Critical response  KPop Demon Hunters received wide acclaim from both critics and audiences, who praised its animation, music, voice acting, and story. On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 96% of 90 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 7.810. The website's consensus reads: Animated with infectious energy and vibrant colors, KPop Demon Hunters is jaunty family entertainment with a terrific soundtrack to boot. Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 77 out of 100, based on 9 critics, indicating generally favorable reviews. Brandon Yu, for The New York Times, wrote that KPop Demon Hunters is an original universe that is charming, funny and artfully punchy. Yu considered the film to share the same cinematic approach as the Spider-Verse animated films, also produced by Sony Pictures Animation, noting both as featuring effective usages of fluid action, striking art, and music that serves the storytelling. Toussaint Egan of IGN wrote that the fight sequences, with their flashy choreography and anime-inflected verve, lean heavily on musical numbers featuring originals songs penned by a who's who list of popular Western artists and Kpop mainstays. Kelechi Ehenulo of Empire called the film a delightful, hugely original addition to Netflix's catalogue, saying it plays like a crossover between Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Popstars: The Rivals, noting its watchability and its story about generational burdens of shame and fear and embracing who you are. Matt Goldberg of TheWrap commented that the plot would be painfully overwrought if not for the terrific thread of comedy throughout the film. Goldberg and Yu both noted some of the film's best comedy as coming from poking fun at the culture and tropes surrounding K-pop, K-dramas, and other K-media. David Tizzard of The Korea Times wrote that the film is not only a love letter to K-pop but it is also a sharply observed, sometimes unflinching look at the culture that surrounds it. He praised the film's representation of Korean culture, stating that it captures and displays aspects of everyday life in South Korea with an intimacy rarely seen in global content. Tizzard and Peter Debruge of Variety both highlighted the usage of the magpie and tiger in the film, which Tizzard noted as being reinterpreted from Koran tradition with affection. Isaiah Colbert of Io9 praised the film for having an authentic musicality, such that even those watchers who are not fans of K-pop would find themselves bobbing their head and humming along. He also wrote that the film explores music as both a haven and a form of emotional expression. Wilson Chapman of IndieWire thought the most impressive aspect of the music was the varied ways in which the film's songs are staged, such as a demon fight for How It's Done, an opulent music video for Golden, a creation montage for Takedown, and an energetic dance number for Soda Pop. Chapman considered this variation and versatility of the staging to be the means through which the film makes its K-pop elements a central and vital component of its storytelling, rather than just being a gimmick. Debruge wrote that because the nimble, genre-hopping movie is set in the world of K-pop the audience might not fully recognize the film as being a musical. Tizzard wrote that the music is laced with lyrical nuance, and integrates seamlessly with the narrative. Similarly, Goldberg wrote that the songs, while being catchy, have plot stakes that serve to maintain tension throughout the course of the film.  Angela Garcia of SLUG wrote that due to the the film's short runtime, KPop Demon Hunters [feels] like it's only scratched the surface of both the world and characters, with many ideas having been left underdeveloped. Chapman also highlighted the short runtime, which he felt was both a benefit to the film at certain points, and the film's main flaw; by moving quickly, the film lacks depth at points, such as Mira and Zoey receiving the short shrift storyline wise, not fully exploring Rumi's resentment towards Celine, and a rushed, underwhelming climax that is an overly easy resolution that doesn't give these lovable girls the ending they deserve. Goldberg also noted an occasional tonal whiplash, and explained it is not so much that the movie needs to discard the emotional elements, but rather that stronger character arcs were needed for Zoey and Mira leading into the film's climax in order to bridge the divide between comic relief and emotion. Ehenulo stated that despite issues with the film being predictable and rushed in its ending, these flaws can be pushed away, writing that the film deserves every bit of its global domination.    Accolades     Impact   The film has had a major impact as a result of its popularity, furthering the visibility and popularity of South Korean culture as part of the Korean Wave, along with inspiring an expansive fandom. On July 29, 2025, Netflix announced that KPop Demon Hunters had become the platform's most watched original animated film of all time. On August 26, the company said the film had been watched 236 million times, passing Red Notice 2021 as its most-watched film. The Hollywood Reporter stated in late August that according to the company's internal figures, the film had a remarkably consistent run over the summer, and predicted this meant it would stick around for a while longer in Nielsen's charts. On September 3, Netflix stated that the film had passed 266 million views, overtaking the first season of Squid Game 2021 to become Netflix's most-watched title. The film's popularity has been described as surprising and unexpected; its streaming success was compared by Nate Jones of Vulture to that of Disney's Encanto 2021. Drew Taylor of TheWrap said the film was a force just about everywhere, citing the popularity of the soundtrack album, and Netflix's official shop adding a section for the film, with t-shirts and plushies among the top 5 best-selling items of the year. Others called the film an animated sensation, a potential gold mine for Netflix, a smash hit movie, and the biggest hit of Hollywood's summer. The Cut said that the film's hunky characters ... culturally specific story line ... [and] infectious soundtrack were reasons for its popularity, with Yoohyun Jung of The Boston Globe suggesting that the film weaving Korean cultural elements ... into its storytelling was another reason for why it is popular. In late September, Luminate made a presentation at the All That Matters conference in Singapore about insights from global and APAC music, saying that cross-promotion across TV, film and music, as is the case for the film, with over two-thirds of audio streams from the film's soundtrack coming from outside the U.S., is unlocking fresh demographics and discovery paths. Luminate also described the film as a transmedia hit. Sara Leila Sherman and Morton Sherman wrote in Psychology Today that the film became more than entertainment, with sing alongs bringing people together, and described the film as a global phenomenon. On September 12, Lars Brandle wrote on Billboard that the film's soundtrack proves impossible to slay as it accounted for seven singles in the top 20 and continued to lead the ARIA Singles Chart for a seventh consecutive week. In an article published the same day on Billboard, Thomas Smith said that for the sixth week in a row, the song Golden from the film had been the #1 single in the UK, and was the second-ever K-pop song to hit the top spot within the UK itself. The film also made its way into sports and other popular culture. On September 2, at the U.S. Open, Novak Djokovic, after winning a tennis match with Taylor Fritz did a dance inspired by the song Soda Pop. The film was also featured in a Saturday Night Live sketch on its season premiere hosted by Bad Bunny, and included cameos from Ejae, Audrey Nuna and Rei Ami performing 30-second snippets from the songs Golden and How It's Done live, with Bowen Yang portraying the character Jinu and singing lyrics from Soda Pop. On October 7, Ejae, Nuna and Rei Ami gave a full-length performance of Golden during an episode of The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon, along with being interviewed by the host. The singers repeated a performance of Golden during the 99th annual Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City on November 27, alongside a balloon themed after Jinu's pet tiger, Derpy, from the film.    Korean Wave  KPop Demon Hunters has been noted, within the context of the Korean Wave, for a global increase in popularity of South Korean culture and media; this increased popularity has acted as a form of soft power for the country. Some, like Korean cultural scholar Park Jihyon, said that the film's popularity could likely become a very important turning point in the history of the Korean Wave. Researchers such as Xin Fan and Salas Supalakwatchana have commented on the film as a major cultural product within the Korean soft power landscape, and as a demonstration of how animation can serve as an effective medium for cultural representation, capable of merging entertainment value with strategic cultural promotion. Cho Jae-hyon of Hankook Ilbo opined that KPop Demon Hunters represents a new phase of the Korean Wave where the production and consumption of Korean-themed content occurs abroad rather than being created within South Korea and then exported. Moon Dong-yeol of The Hankyoreh similarly argued that KPop Demon Hunters represents this phase's denationalization, where we can no longer define [the Korean Wave] simply as something that was 'made in Korea'. Grace Kao, for Foreign Policy, argued that at its core, KPop Demon Hunters is a rebuke of the localization trend where some entertainment companies are embracing K-pop groups and songs that use local cultural elements over strictly Korean ones. She commented the film shows that consumers are not looking for a product stripped of Korean cultural elements or Koreans themselves and that media does not need to emulate American or any other pop culture to be successful. Michelle Yee Hee Lee of The Washington Post wrote that within South Korea, the film had taken the country by storm, even embraced by businesses and governments, due to its broad appeal as an animated film, with products, art classes based around themes from the film, and renewed interest in the country's history and heritage. Kao highlighted that not only does the film's visual choices reflect Korean culture but also the plot honors Korean heritage and identity, noting many of the songwriters and artists involved in the film are part of the Korean diaspora, and K-pop itself owes much to Koreans who moved from Australia, Canada, and the United States to Korea to participate in the music industry. Cho commented that a striking change can be seen in who makes K-content as many foreign creators, often based outside Korea, are now producing works which are inspired by Korea's history and culture, highlighting that this film's production team was largely non-Korean. Both Cho and Min Seong-jae of The Korea Times have stated that this phase of the Korean Wave has also been influenced by Korean diaspora creators, with Cho noting that KPop Demon Hunters director Maggie Kang, a Korean Canadian, drew on her childhood memories of K-content to create the film. Moon stated that KPop Demon Hunters is a typical example of the denationalized Korean Wave, highlighting that the film was distributed by Netflix, its production was by a Japanese company, it was directed by a Korean Canadian, had Korean actors in the English voice cast and members of popular girl group Twice sang some of the songs in the soundtrack, making the work a collaboration that transcended all national borders. Moon opined that the film's success indicates that the Korean Wave has entered a new phase and that no longer is it a unilateral process of content being produced in Korea and exported to the outside world but instead it circulates and is recreated within a global network, following a multidirectional flow. Hae-rin Lee of The Korea Times said the film's global popularity boosted tourism in South Korea, with fans who are interested in destinations and experiences tied to Korea's pop culture visiting recording studios, museum shops, cafés, and other attractions, including locations shown in the film, like Namsan, Naksan Park Fortress Trail, and Bukchon Hanok Village. Some businesses have released products related to the film, while fans are said to be embracing the food the film's main characters are shown eating, with Lee saying this indicates how pop culture is shaping culinary trends. The National Museum of Korea in Seoul drew more than five million visitors, an unprecedented total that ranks it alongside the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and the British Museum in London. This surge was partly credited to the widespread popularity of KPop Demon Hunters. Seoul's Leeum Museum of Art opened an exhibition focused on tiger and magpie minhwa, including a Hojak-do painting from 1592 which is considered the oldest surviving piece in this style. Sookyung Seo of The Korean Economic Daily wrote that partially due to the film's popularity drew over 1.36 million international travelers arrived in Seoul, saying it was a 23.1% increase from the same month in 2024, and an 18% higher than in July 2019, according to the Seoul Metropolitan Government's data, and said to be the largest monthly tally ever recorded.    Fandom   The film has been noted as a cultural phenomenon by a variety of media outlets, many highlighting the film's soundtrack, characters, and story, as well as homages to anime and representation of fandom and Asian cultures. Others noted that following the film's release, dance sequences went viral on TikTok and social media was flooded with fanart of characters from the film. Within South Korea, fans called the fandom KeDeHun. The film's success was also seen as a watershed moment for representation of Asian characters in pop culture, with children not having to look to Pixar or Disney princesses for costume inspiration. BBC News reported on dance classes themed on K-pop, particularly songs from the film, in Belfast, and said that K-pop has gained increased visibility thanks to the film's success. Alex Vadukul of New York Times noted that an intense fandom had formed around Huntrix and the Saja Boys, and noted that May Hong, who voices Mira, said it was crazy being on the receiving end of [the film's] fandom. Yvonne Kim of The Atlantic said that the film transforms fandom from a hobby into an action of creation. She added that the film acknowledges the sometimes-parasitic relationship between artist and listener and the unilateral power of performers and said that the film's fans are not different from real-life, ordinary people who devote themselves to K-pop. There has been an internet challenge involving ramen noodles, based on ramyun eaten by Rumi, Zoey, and Mira, while singing the song How It's Done, during the film. It was reported that this resulted in severe burns and hospitalization among some fans who tried to recreate this scene, with doctors and hospitals warning about the dangers of eating instant noodles in extremely hot water, suggesting people eat the noodles more carefully. During the 2025 Halloween season, KPop Demon Hunters-related costumes saw significant popularity, with Google searches for costumes of the film's characters dominating search rankings, and with costumes from major retailers like Spirit Halloween quickly becoming sold out. Local news media from across the United States similarly noted the high popularity of KPop Demon Hunters costumes.    Future     Sequel  In an interview with Screen Rant, director Maggie Kang expressed interest in a potential sequel and side stories to flesh out the universe of the film. She said that many questions that were raised remain unanswered fully and that there are a lot of pockets that we can explore, such as potential backstories for Mira and Zoey. Director Chris Appelhans told People that there are so many unanswered questions, in a good way, and so many avenues that could be their own story. Matthew Belloni of Puck noted that, under the 2021 agreement between Sony and Netflix, Sony holds the contractual right to produce future installments of KPop Demon Hunters; however, the follow-up movies will go directly to Netflix, barring the unlikely event of [Netflix] co-C.E.O. Ted Sarandos suddenly coming around on theaters. In July 2025, TheWrap reported that, following the success of the film, Netflix has begun considering several potential follow-up projects, including two sequels, a television series, a short film, and a stage musical. In a statement to Newsweek, Netflix Films chairman Dan Lin commented that the company was excited to explore what could be the next adventure for Huntrix. KPop Demon Hunters' success comes from its original, fresh story so if we do embark on a sequel, we would want to take our time to make sure that any future stories we tell with our favorite demon hunters retains the flair and uniqueness of the first film. In August 2025, Belloni reported that Sony had just began negotiations with Kang and Appelhans to return for a follow-up. On August 26, Pamela McClintock of The Hollywood Reporter stated that Sony Pictures was in talks with Netflix to make an animated sequel. On November 5, 2025, it was announced that a sequel is planned for release in 2029, with Kang writing the script.    Short film  On March 29, 2023, Sony announced that their LENS mentorship program would produce a short film based on KPop Demon Hunters after the release of the Spider-Verse short film The Spider Within. In September 2025, the film, Debut: A KPop Demon Hunters Story, was rated PG by the MPA.    Other media  Rumi, Mira, and Zoey were added to the video game Fortnite as purchasable skins on October 2, 2025. On the same month, it was announced that Netflix had granted KPop Demon Hunters toy licenses to both Hasbro and Mattel, with toys based on the film scheduled to be sold at retail beginning in 2026. On November 28, a digital art book for the film was released online; a physical edition is scheduled for publication in February 2026.    Notes     References     External links   Official website  KPop Demon Hunters on Netflix  KPop Demon Hunters at IMDb BTS,BTS Korean: 방탄소년단; RR: Bangtan Sonyeondan; lit. Bulletproof Boy Scouts, also known as the Bangtan Boys, is a South Korean boy band formed in 2010. The band consists of Jin, Suga, J-Hope, RM, Jimin, V, and Jung Kook, who co-write or co-produce much of their material. Originally a hip hop group, they expanded their musical style to incorporate a wide range of genres, while their lyrics have focused on subjects including mental health, the troubles of school-age youth and coming of age, loss, the journey towards self-love, individualism, and the consequences of fame and recognition. Their discography and adjacent work has also referenced literature, philosophy and psychology, and includes an alternate universe storyline. BTS debuted in 2013 under Big Hit Entertainment with the single album 2 Cool 4 Skool. BTS released their first Korean and Japanese-language studio albums, Dark & Wild and Wake Up respectively, in 2014. The group's second Korean studio album, Wings 2016, was their first to sell one million copies in South Korea. By 2017, BTS had crossed into the global music market and led the Korean Wave into the United States, becoming the first Korean ensemble to receive a Gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of America RIAA for their single Mic Drop, as well as the first act from South Korea to top the Billboard 200 with their studio album Love Yourself: Tear 2018. In 2020, BTS became the fastest group since the Beatles to chart four US number-one albums in less than two years, with Love Yourself: Answer 2018 becoming the first Korean album certified Platinum by the RIAA; in the same year, they also became the first all-South Korean act to reach number one on both the Billboard Hot 100 and Billboard Global 200 with their Grammy-nominated single Dynamite. Follow-up releases Savage Love, Life Goes On, Butter, Permission to Dance, and My Universe made them the fastest act to earn six US number-one singles since the Beatles in 1966. As of 2023, BTS is the best-selling musical act in South Korean history according to the Circle Chart, having sold in excess of 40 million albums. Their studio album Map of the Soul: 7 2020 is the fourth best-selling album of all time in South Korea, as well as the first in the country to surpass both four and five million registered sales. They are the first non-English-speaking and Asian act to sell out concerts at Wembley Stadium and the Rose Bowl Love Yourself World Tour, 2019, and were named the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry's IFPI Global Recording Artist of the Year for both 2020 and 2021. The group's accolades include multiple American Music Awards, Billboard Music Awards, Golden Disc Awards, and nominations for five Grammy Awards. Outside of music, they have addressed three sessions of the United Nations General Assembly and partnered with UNICEF in 2017 to establish the Love Myself anti-violence campaign. Featured on Time's international cover as Next Generation Leaders and dubbed the Princes of Pop, BTS has also appeared on Time's lists of the 25 most influential people on the internet 2017–2019 and the 100 most influential people in the world 2019, and in 2018 became the youngest recipients of the South Korean Order of Cultural Merit for their contributions in spreading the Korean culture and language. On June 14, 2022, the group announced a scheduled pause in group activities to enable the members to complete their 18 months of mandatory South Korean military service. Jin, the eldest member, enlisted on December 13, 2022; the others followed in 2023. All members completed their services by June 2025. In August 2025, RM confirmed that the band is working on a new album and in November 2025, Jimin announced that all the music for the album was completed and is being planned for release in early 2026.    Name  BTS stands for the Korean phrase Bangtan Sonyeondan Korean: 방탄소년단; Hanja: 防彈少年團, which translates literally to 'Bulletproof Boy Scouts'. According to J-Hope, the name signifies the group's desire to block out stereotypes, criticisms, and expectations that aim on adolescents like bullets. In Japan, they are known as Bōdan Shōnendan 防弾少年団. In July 2017, BTS announced that their name would also stand for Beyond the Scene as part of their new brand identity. This extended the meaning of their name to encompass the idea of growth from a boy to an adult who opens the doors that are facing forward.    History     2010–2014: Formation and early years   BTS was formed in 2010, after Big Hit Entertainment CEO Bang Si-hyuk wanted to form a hip hop group around RM Kim Nam-joon, an underground rapper well known on the music scene in Seoul. At the time, physical album sales were on the decline and digital revenues were not yet high enough to compensate. Seeing a need for diversified income streams, Bang decided to form an idol group instead, because of the potential for live concert performances and passionate support from fans of such groups. Many trainees refused to become part of an idol group, but J-Hope, RM, and Suga remained. Bang chose to vary from the usual, highly regimented idol groups and create one where the members would be individuals rather than an ensemble and free to express themselves. Auditions were held in 2010 with plans to launch the following year. The band members lived together, practicing up to 15 hours a day, and first performed before a small crowd of industry insiders in 2013.  BTS's representation by Big Hit, rather than one of the three agencies that dominated K-pop at the time, allowed the individual members leeway to express their individuality and have input into the music. On June 12, 2013, BTS released their debut single album 2 Cool 4 Skool, along with the lead single No More Dream, neither of which sold particularly well at the time. On June 13, 2013, BTS made their stage debut on M Countdown with the single, No More Dream. Nevertheless, according to Kathy Sprinkel in her book on BTS, that single was spotlighting young people's anxiety in the face of lofty parental expectations, sent shock waves through the K-pop ranks. Here was a musical act that wasn't pulling any punches. More specifically, they had a point of view, and they weren't afraid to take on topics that are considered taboo in South Korean society and elsewhere. The album reached the top five on South Korea's Gaon Music Chart. In 2 Cool 4 Skool, BTS employed an old-school hip-hop sound from the 1990s. The album's release was followed by appearances on Korean music shows, which caught the attention of reviewers and viewers. In September 2013, BTS released the second entry in their school trilogy: the EP, ORUL8,2. The album was released alongside the single N.O. Similarly to 2 Cool 4 Skool, the new release had a theme of students feeling under pressure and needing to sacrifice their dreams and aspirations. According to scholar Kyung Hyun Kim, many of BTS's earlier works such as N.O. and No More Dreams were expressions of rebellion against the establishment that tapped into Korean teenagers' frustrations with the country's educational system and, he stated, helped them build a fan base among young people in North America and Europe. That same month, BTS starred in their own variety show, SBS MTV's Rookie King Channel Bangtan, in which members parodied variety shows such as VJ Special Forces and MasterChef Korea. At the end of the year, BTS was recognized with several New Artist of the Year awards in South Korea.    2014–2017     Skool Luv Affair and first concert tour   The last entry in BTS school trilogy, the Skool Luv Affair EP, was released in February 2014. The release topped the Gaon Album Chart, and appeared on Billboard's World Albums Chart for the first time, peaking at number three. The EP was supported by two singles: Boy in Luv and Just One Day. Following Skool Luv Affair's release, BTS played at their first fan meeting in Seoul, selecting the name A.R.M.Y. for the fan club. In July 2014, BTS hosted a concert in West Hollywood, their first show in the United States, and in August, they appeared at KCON in Los Angeles. In August 2014, BTS released the album Dark & Wild, which reached number two in South Korea. It was supported by two singles: Danger and War of Hormone. The group embarked on their first concert tour, 2014 BTS Live Trilogy Episode II: The Red Bullet, which lasted from October to December 2014. The band launched their first Japanese studio album, Wake Up, in December 2014; the release peaked at number three on the Oricon Albums Chart. After the album's release, BTS held their 1st Japan Tour 2015 Wake Up: Open Your Eyes in February 2015. The Red Bullet Tour that had begun on October 17, 2014, in South Korea was resumed on June 6, 2015, in Malaysia and toured Australia, North America and Latin America before ending in Hong Kong that August. In all, the entire tour attracted 80,000 spectators at 18 cities in 13 countries.    Mainstream breakthrough and commercial success  BTS experimented with other styles of music besides hip-hop in The Most Beautiful Moment in Life, Pt. 1, released in 2015. BTS wanted to express the beauty and anxiousness of youth and settled on the title of 花樣年華 Korean: 화양연화; RR: Hwayangyeonhwa, loosely interpreted to define youth metaphorically as the most beautiful moment in life. The album served as an introduction to their youth trilogy, a triptych of albums dedicated to the struggles of young people. The single I Need U was a top-five hit in South Korea and garnered the group a win on SBS MTV's The Show. The second single Dope Korean: 쩔어; RR: Jjeoreo; lit. It's awesome reached number three on Billboard's World Digital Song Sales chart and its music video was viewed over 100 million times on YouTube. The group began the world tour extension of their Red Bullet Tour in June, titled 2015 Live Trilogy Episode II: The Red Bullet, visiting cities throughout Asia, Oceania, North America, and Latin America. For You, in Japanese, was released together with Japanese versions of War of Hormone and Let Me Know on June 17, 2015, and immediately topped Oricon's daily chart.  In November, BTS commenced their third concert tour, 2015 BTS LIVE The Most Beautiful Moment in Life: On Stage, beginning with three sold-out shows in Seoul. The tour marked the debut of their fourth EP, The Most Beautiful Moment in Life, Part 2, and was later extended to Japan. Thematically, the EP focused more on the serious and speculative aspects of youth, touching on the pursuit of success, loneliness, affection for their origins, and the suffering of the younger generation due to unfavorable conditions in current society. The album topped the weekly Gaon Album and Billboard World Albums charts. It also marked their first appearance on the Billboard 200 chart, making it for one week at number 171, and eight of the tracks appeared on Billboard's World Digital Song Sales chart. Their compilation album and the finale to their youth trilogy, The Most Beautiful Moment in Life: Young Forever was released on May 2, 2016. With 300,000 presold copies, it included three new singles: Epilogue: Young Forever, Fire, and Save Me, which debuted in the top three spots on the Billboard World Digital Charts. The album topped the Gaon Album Chart in South Korea for two consecutive weeks and reached number 107 on the Billboard 200. The Most Beautiful Moment in Life: Young Forever won Album of the Year at the 2016 Melon Music Awards. BTS embarked on their Asia tour extension, 2016 BTS LIVE The Most Beautiful Moment in Life On Stage: Epilogue from May to August 2016. Tickets for the 14 shows in 10 Asian cities sold out, some in as little as five seconds.  In September 2016, BTS released their second Japanese studio album Youth. The album sold 44,547 copies on the first day of its release, and charted 1st in the Oricon Daily Album Chart. The album was eventually certified Gold with sales of roughly over 100,000 in Japan. It was followed one month later in October, by their next studio album Wings, which combined the themes of youth presented in their previous youth trilogy with temptation and adversity. The album and its tracks, including the single Blood Sweat & Tears immediately rose to the top on eight music charts, including the Gaon Music Chart, and led the iTunes album charts in 23 countries. Wings opened at number 26 on the Billboard 200, with 16,000 album-equivalent units in the US for the week of its release, the best week ever there for a K-pop album. It became the best-selling album in Gaon Album Chart history.    You Never Walk Alone and Love Yourself: Her  In February 2017, BTS released the repackaged edition of Wings entitled You Never Walk Alone. The 700,000 pre-orders of it an increase from the 500,000 pre-orders of Wings helped break the record for most albums sold in a month in South Korea, as it reached 1.49 million copies by the end of its first month. The lead single was Spring Day and it won Best Song of the Year at the 2017 Melon Music Awards. BTS's second world tour, 2017 BTS Live Trilogy Episode III: The Wings Tour, began in February. On the tour, BTS played arenas in the US, such as New Jersey's Prudential Center and California's Honda Center. Tickets for the North American leg sold out within hours and two shows were added. After completing the North American leg, BTS attended the 24th Billboard Music Awards in May and won Top Social Artist, the first K-pop group to win a Billboard award. BTS fans cast over 300 million votes for the band and broke a six-year winning streak held by Justin Bieber, a performer with 100 million Twitter followers. This caused the international media to focus on the ability of BTS's fandom to propel the group to such a victory.  BTS released a remake of Seo Taiji's Come Back Home 1995 in July 2017, giving it new lyrics but maintaining the theme of urging societal change. Later that year, BTS embarked on their Love Yourself album series, with theme of the enlightenment of self-love through the 起承轉結 Korean: 기승전결; RR: Giseungjeongyeol narrative sequence of beginning, development, turn, and conclusion. BTS released its first part, their fifth EP, Love Yourself: Her, on September 18. RM considered DNA, the lead single from that album, as taking BTS to new ground. We tried to apply new grammar and perspectives. He said of the album, I believe it's going to be the starting point of a second chapter of our career; the beginning of our Chapter Two. Sonically, the EP served as a dual exploration of the group's electro-pop and hip-hop leanings.  Love Yourself: Her debuted at number seven on the Billboard 200. The album had 1,664,041 sales in May 2017 to lead the Gaon Chart, and was the first in 16 years to exceed 1.2 million copies sold since g.o.d's fourth album Chapter 4 2001. DNA was released simultaneously with the EP, and its music video accumulated 21 million views in its first 24 hours. It became BTS's first entry on the Billboard Hot 100, charting at number 85, making them the first K-pop boy band to reach that chart. The single rose to number 67 the following week and became the highest-charting song on the Hot 100 for any K-pop group. A remix of Mic Drop from the album, featuring Desiigner, was released as a single and peaked at number 28, the first time a K-pop group had cracked the top forty. Both singles attained Gold certification from the Recording Industry Association of America RIAA in early 2018. Mic Drop achieved Platinum status in the US later that year. In November 2017, BTS became the first K-pop group to perform at the American Music Awards. BTS won Artist of the Year at the 19th Mnet Asian Music Awards in December, winning for the second consecutive year. They released DNA and Mic Drop together with a new song Crystal Snow as a single album in Japan on December 6, 2017, though the songs were made digitally available elsewhere. It topped the Oricon Chart for the week of its release. It was the only album by a foreign artist to be certified Double Platinum in Japan in 2017. Later that month, they made their Japanese television prime time music show debut on Music Station Super Live, and ended the year by performing on Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve. In 2017, BTS partnered with UNICEF on the Love Myself campaign, intended to help end violence, abuse, and bullying, and to promote self-esteem and well-being among young people. Both Big Hit and the group pledged money to promote the campaign, and BTS sold special Love Myself merchandise and set up dedicated booths at concert venues. The campaign was renewed in 2021, with UNICEF deeming it to have been successful.    2018–2020     Love Yourself album series  BTS won major awards at the Golden Disc and Seoul Music Awards in January 2018. In March, the group premiered an eight-episode documentary titled Burn the Stage that offered a behind-the-scenes look at their 2017 Wings Tour, exclusively on YouTube Premium. Their third Japanese studio album, Face Yourself, was released on April 4, 2018, and quickly reached the top 5 of the U.S. iTunes Albums chart. A nine-minute short film, titled Euphoria: Theme of Love Yourself: Wonder and featuring the song Euphoria, followed the next day as a prelude to the group's third Korean-language studio album, Love Yourself: Tear. BTS promoted Tear's May 18, 2018, release with an appearance at the 25th Billboard Music Awards two days later, where they made their initial BBMA performance with their single, Fake Love. The group also won Top Social Artist for a second consecutive time. The album coincided with the 轉 or turn of the series, touching on the tortuous enlightenment of loving without being loved, the pains and sorrows of separation, and providing encouragement to those without dreams.  Love Yourself: Tear debuted at number one its first week on the Billboard 200, becoming BTS's first number-one album in the US and the first K-pop album to top the US albums chart. It also became BTS's first top-10 release in Britain, reaching number eight on the UK Albums Chart. Fake Love became BTS's top-10 single on the Hot 100, the first time a song sung mostly in a language other than English had debuted in the top 10. BTS released their compilation album Love Yourself: Answer in August 2018. The album was supported by the single Idol and its alternative digital release featuring Nicki Minaj. Love Yourself: Answer sold over 1.9 million copies on the Gaon Album Chart in August 2018. The album became BTS's second number-one on the Billboard 200 and led to their highest US sales week in the country to that point with 185,000 album equivalent units. In November 2018, Love Yourself: Answer became the first Korean language album to be certified Gold by the RIAA. Idol and Love Yourself: Answer both received Platinum certifications in the US, with sales of more than 1 million.  In conjunction with Love Yourself: Answer's release in August 2018, BTS commenced their world tour, BTS World Tour: Love Yourself, with two concerts in the Seoul Olympic Stadium, which sold out in a matter of seconds, as did others of the 22 shows in 12 countries. In October, BTS released their collaboration with Steve Aoki Waste It on Me, their first all-English language feature. For the final stop of the North American leg, the group performed at Citi Field in New York City, marking the first time a Korean act performed at a US stadium. According to StubHub, BTS was the second best-selling concert act outside the US, behind only Ed Sheeran. That October, BTS renewed their contract with Big Hit Entertainment through 2026. In early November 2018, a popular Japanese music show cancelled BTS's performance, citing a T-shirt a member wore the year before, bearing a photograph of a mushroom cloud following the bombing of Nagasaki. In the same month, the Jewish human rights organization Simon Wiesenthal Center SWC stated that BTS owed an apology for that shirt, and for clothing and flags with Nazi symbolism. Big Hit Entertainment issued an apology, explaining that the images were not intended to be hurtful to the victims of Nazism or atomic bombings and that the group and management would take steps to prevent future mistakes. They also stated the flags were meant to be a commentary on the Korean school system. The apology was accepted by SWC and the Korean Atomic Bomb Victim Association. John Lie, in his scholarly article on BTS, opined that the Nazi incident showed that the group is not tightly controlled, as are other K-pop ensembles, whose every move seems scripted, and that the members have opinions and are not afraid to express them. At the 20th Mnet Asian Music Awards, BTS won Artist of the Year and ranked number eight on Billboard's year-end Top Artist Chart and were also the number two act of the year in the DuoGroup ranking, only behind Imagine Dragons. They were also listed as one of the 50 most influential people by Bloomberg for their willingness to address social issues, mental health, and politics, despite being in a genre often painted as bubble gum pop.    Map of the Soul: Persona, stadium world tour and BTS World  In February 2019, BTS, for the first time, were presenters at the Grammy Awards. In April, Time named them one of the Time 100, the most influential people of 2019. Their EP, Map of the Soul: Persona, was released on April 12 with the single Boy with Luv Korean: 작은 것들을 위한 시; RR: Jageun geotdeureul wihan si, featuring American singer Halsey. The EP's release was followed by a performance on Saturday Night Live, the first K-pop act to appear there. Map of the Soul: Persona became the first Korean-language album to reach the number one position in both the UK and Australia, and the group's third album to top the Billboard 200 in less than a year. Map of the Soul: Persona became the best-selling album ever in South Korea in terms of physical copies sold, with more than 3.2 million sales in less than a month. Boy with Luv debuted at number eight on the Billboard Hot 100 in April 2019, the highest placement ever for a K-pop song.  Following their two wins at the 26th Billboard Music Awards in May, including for Top DuoGroup, BTS embarked on their world tour stadium extension, Love Yourself: Speak Yourself. Due to the demand, BTS added more shows after tickets for the first dates sold out within two hours. In the lead up to the release of their mobile game BTS World, in June 2019 BTS released Dream Glow featuring Charli XCX, A Brand New Day with Zara Larsson, and All Night with Juice Wrld. The group released the song Heartbeat with a music video from the game's official soundtrack, titled BTS World: Original Soundtrack. The soundtrack was certified Double Platinum by Gaon. On July 3, 2019, pre-orders for the single Lights crossed one million copies, marking the first time a foreign artist had accomplished this in Japan since Celine Dion in 1995. Lights debuted at number 81 on the Billboard Japan Hot 100 for the chart issue date of July 8, 2019, and reached number one the following week. On August 8, 2019, Lights received Million certification from the RIAJ, denoting shipments of one million copies. Love Yourself: Her and Love Yourself: Tear both crossed 2 million copies in August. All three albums of the Love Yourself series have sold more than 2 million copies each in South Korea. Love Yourself: Tear gained silver certification by the BPI for sales in the UK, becoming their third album to do so following Love Yourself: Answer and Map of the Soul: Persona. For the final stop of their record-breaking Love Yourself: Speak Yourself World Tour, the group played Seoul's Olympic Stadium. BTS was the third top-grossing touring musical act of 2019. That same month, they released a remix version of the song Make It Right featuring Lauv. In November, BTS won three times at the 2019 American Music Awards, for Best Tour, Favorite Duo or Group – PopRock, and Favorite Social Artist the second consecutive year. In December, they attended both the 2019 Melon Music Awards and the 2019 Mnet Asian Music Awards. In each case, they became the first group to sweep the four major awards. At the 34th Golden Disc Awards, BTS became the first artists in history to win grand prizes in both the physical and digital categories in a single year. Map of the Soul: Persona was named the second best-selling physical album of 2019 in the US by Nielsen Music behind Taylor Swift's Lover and was ranked sixth overall on the chart of Top 10 Albums Total Sales in the US. BTS wrapped 2019 as the fourth-highest-ranked group on Billboard's Top Billboard 200 Artists–DuoGroup ranking, behind Queen, Imagine Dragons and the Beatles. Map of the Soul: Persona was named as the third best-selling album of 2019 by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry IFPI, making BTS the first Korean artist to be listed on the Global Top 10 Album Chart in consecutive years.  The IFPI named BTS as one of the best-selling artists of 2019 for a second consecutive year, making them the first non-English speaking act to achieve this.    Map of the Soul: 7, Dynamite and Be  In January 2020, BTS released Black Swan along with a choreography art film performed by MN Dance Company of Slovenia as the first single from their album Map of the Soul: 7. Album distributor Dreamus reported that stock pre-orders of the album reached a record-breaking 4.02 million. Later that month, BTS performed at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards, making BTS the first Korean act to perform at the Grammys. Map of the Soul: 7 was released on February 21 to favorable reviews. The album was supported by the single On and an alternative digital release of it featuring Australian singer Sia. According to Gaon Chart, Map of the Soul: 7 sold over 4.1 million copies in nine days after its release, surpassing Map of the Soul: Persona to become the best-selling album in South Korean history and the first album to be certified quadruple million. The album debuted atop the US Billboard 200, making BTS the fastest group to earn four number one albums since the Beatles in 1966–1968. On debuted at number four on the Billboard Hot 100, giving BTS its first top-five hit, and the most Hot 100 top-10 entries of any Korean act, with three. BTS planned to support the Map of the Soul album series with a concert series, Map of the Soul Tour, beginning in April, but this was indefinitely postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In April 2020, BTS became the first K-pop artist to sell more than 20 million albums cumulatively, making them the best-selling artist in South Korean history. That month, amid the pandemic restrictions, BTS held a two-day online streaming concert event titled Bang Bang Con, where the group shared footage of past concerts on their YouTube channel. On June 7, BTS headlined YouTube's Dear Class of 2020 online graduation event, performing Boy with Luv, Spring Day, and Mikrokosmos. Their commencement speeches highlighted their own graduations and offered messages of hope and inspiration for the class of 2020 in both Korean and English. On June 14, BTS held an online live concert, Bang Bang Con: The Live, as part of the seventh anniversary of their debut. It garnered peak viewership of  756,000 live viewers in 107 countries and territories, setting the record for the largest audience for a paid virtual concert. On June 19, BTS released the Japanese single, Stay Gold, from their fourth Japanese album, Map of the Soul: 7 – The Journey, which was released worldwide on July 14. It surpassed 564,000 copies in its first week, breaking the record for highest first week album sales by male foreign artists in Japan. BTS released their first English-language single, Dynamite, on August 21. Dynamite debuted at number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart, earning BTS their first chart topper and making them the first all-South Korean act to earn a number one single in the US. The single also topped Billboard's new Global 200 for the week ending September 24, as well as Global Excluding US charts, becoming the first single to top both simultaneously. Dynamite peaked at number five on the US Mainstream Top 40 and on the. Billboard Pop Singles chart, becoming their first Top 10 on each and the former the highest-charting entry by a Korean act. On August 31, BTS made their MTV Video Music Awards VMAs debut with the first live performance of Dynamite and won four awards: Best Group, Best Choreography, Best Pop Video, and Best K-pop the last three for their music video for On. On October 14, they performed the single at the 2020 Billboard Music Awards and won the Top Social Artist award for a fourth consecutive year. On October 2, 2020, BTS released a remix of Jawsh 685 and Jason Derulo's single Savage Love Laxed – Siren Beat. It topped the Hot 100. On October 10 and 11, BTS hosted a two-day virtual pay-per-view concert at KSPO Dome in Seoul, called Map of the Soul ON:E, which drew 993,000 viewers from 191 countries and territories. On November 20, BTS released their fifth Korean studio album Be, led by the single Life Goes On. Life Goes On debuted at number one on the Hot 100, BTS's third consecutive US number-one single in three months and the first song performed primarily in Korean to top the chart. On November 24, 2020, BTS became the first Korean pop artists recognized by the Recording Academy when Dynamite received a nomination for Best Pop DuoGroup Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards. The group won the Special International Music Award at the 62nd Japan Record Awards. Kim, in his book on the influence of Korean popular culture, suggested that 2020, the worst year in many people's lives, was a noteworthy one for Korean culture, with Parasite winning the Academy Award for Best Picture and BTS posting three number-one hits on the Billboard Global 200.    2021–present     Butter, Permission to Dance and Proof   On March 4, 2021, the IFPI named BTS its Global Recording Artist of the Year for 2020, the first Asian and first non-English speaking act to top the ranking. BTS occupied three spots in the Global Album Sales Chart of 2020, with Map of the Soul: 7 at number one, Be Deluxe Edition at number two, and Map of the Soul: 7–The Journey at number eight. On the newly launched Global Album All Format Chart, Map of the Soul: 7 claimed first place and Be Deluxe Edition claimed fourth. On March 14, 2021, BTS performed Dynamite at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards, becoming the first Korean nominee to perform, though they did not win the award. On April 1, BTS released Film Out, the first single from their then-upcoming Japanese compilation album, BTS, the Best. BTS held a two-day online streaming event on their YouTube channel beginning April 17, titled Bang Bang Con 21, and aired three of their previous in-person concerts. On May 21, BTS released their second English-language single, Butter. It debuted at number one on the Hot 100—their fourth number one in nine months—making them the quickest act to achieve four chart-toppers since Justin Timberlake in 2006, and the fastest group since the Jackson 5 in 1970. Their next English-language single, Permission to Dance, was released on July 9. It became BTS's eighth number-one on the Digital Songs chart, extending their record as the group with the most number-one entries on the ranking. On September 24, 2021, the band released the single My Universe with Coldplay. The single debuted at number one on the Hot 100, making it the first collaboration between two groups to debut at number one. On October 4, 2021, My Universe became BTS' sixth Hot 100 number one, achieving the fastest accumulation of six chart-toppers since The Beatles in 1964–1966. The band held an online concert, titled Permission to Dance on Stage, on October 24, 2021, in Seoul. On November 23, Butter earned a Grammy nomination for Best Pop DuoGroup Performance at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards. Between November 27 and December 2, BTS held their first live performances before an in-person audience since before the pandemic. The band played four sold-out shows at SoFi Stadium in Los Angeles as a continuation of their Permission to Dance on Stage concert series. On January 15, 2022, a fictional webtoon based on BTS, titled 7Fates: Chakho, was released. The comic surpassed 15 million views globally in its first two days of availability and became the highest-viewed title ever launched by Webtoon. The band held three limited-capacity concerts at Seoul Olympic Stadium on March 10, 12 and 13—the largest music gatherings approved by the South Korean government since the pandemic restrictions were imposed—with a total audience of 45,000 people. On April 3, BTS performed Butter at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards, though the song did not win the award for which it was nominated. On April 8, the band earned seven nominations at the 2022 Billboard Music Awards and won three, making them the most-nominated and the most-awarded group in the show's history. On June 10, 2022, BTS released their three-CD anthology album Proof. On June 14, during their ninth anniversary celebrations, the band announced a temporary suspension of group activities to focus on solo projects and other endeavors. Hybe Corporation, which owns Big Hit, clarified in subsequent statements that BTS was neither disbanding nor going on hiatus, but would be actively furthering their individual careers with the label's full support while still participating in group activities, including the filming of Run BTS. The incident caused Hybe Corporation's stock to decline rapidly, resulting in a decrease in market value of US$1.7 billion. On August 24, Billboard magazine reported that BTS would be performing in Busan on October 15 in a benefit concert in support of the city's efforts to have a World Exposition in 2030, participating under the banner Yet to Come.    Military service and contract renewal  In spite of the announcement of the October 2022 benefit concert, Hybe Corporation's stock prices dropped to below its original IPO amid continuing market speculation about the implications of the upcoming mandatory military enlistment of the band's members. Under South Korean laws, all able-bodied males must complete between 18 and 21 months of military service, usually by age 28. Bloomberg News reported the concert as a success but also indicated that there were no further concert dates scheduled. It was estimated that if the band members completed their service, Hybe Corporation would lose nearly US$10 billion over ten years, with the loss to the South Korean economy at nearly US$39 billion. In October 2022, Big Hit confirmed that Jin, the band's oldest member, aged 29, had withdrawn his enlistment deferral request. The other members planned to enlist later, with the group planning to reunite in 2025 following discharge. At the end of October 2022, BTS earned five nominations for the 2022 MAMA Awards, with the band members receiving eight further nominations as solo artists. On November 15, BTS earned three nominations at the 65th Annual Grammy Awards, including a nomination for Best Music Video for Yet to Come. My Universe was nominated for Best Pop DuoGroup Performance, making BTS the only act to be nominated three years in a row in this category since its introduction in 2011. The band was also nominated for Album of the Year as featured artists on Coldplay's Music of the Spheres. Jin enlisted as an active duty soldier on December 13. On February 26, 2023, Big Hit announced that J-Hope had requested cancellation of the postponement of his military service. Following their scheduled separation, the band's BTS 'Yet to Come' in Busan concert film was released on February 1, 2023. J-Hope enlisted as an active duty soldier on April 18. On May 12, BTS released a soundtrack The Planet for the South Korean animated series Bastions. To commemorate their tenth anniversary, the group released the song Take Two on June 9. On September 20, 2023, Hybe confirmed through a press release that BTS would renew their exclusive contracts. The members will sign these agreements sequentially, considering their military service, after a board resolution with Big Hit Music, solidifying their commitment to future projects starting from 2025 onwards. On September 22, 2023, Suga enlisted as a social worker. RM and V enlisted on December 11, 2023, followed by Jimin and Jung Kook on December 12. On June 12, 2024, Jin became the first member to complete his mandatory military service when he was officially discharged; he was followed by J-Hope on October 17, 2024. RM and V were discharged on June 10, 2025, followed by Jimin and Jung Kook on June 11, and on June 18, Suga was the final member to be discharged. The group reunited publicly for the first time on a Weverse live on July 1. In the livestream, they confirmed they were preparing a new album for early 2026, their first since Proof in 2022, alongside a new world tour. On November 1, Jimin confirmed that all of the tracks for the new album were completed and ready for release in the Spring to accompany the group's planned tour.    Artistry     Influences   BTS have cited Seo Taiji and Boys, Nas, Eminem, Kanye West, Drake, Post Malone, Charlie Puth, and Danger as musical inspirations. They have also cited Queen as an influence, saying they grew up watching videos of Live Aid. During their concert at Wembley Stadium in London, Jin paid tribute to Queen by leading the crowd in a version of Freddie Mercury's ay-oh chant. Hip Hop Phile which was released when BTS's hip-hop concept was at its height, pays homage to the artists who influenced them, including the South Korean group Epik High, Jay-Z, Biggie, CL Smooth, and others. Their 2016 album Wings was inspired by Hermann Hesse's coming of age novel, Demian. Their song Blood Sweat & Tears quotes Friedrich Nietzsche's Thus Spoke Zarathustra, and its music video features visual references to Herbert James Draper's The Lament for Icarus, Pieter Bruegel's Landscape with the Fall of Icarus, and Bruegel's The Fall of the Rebel Angels. Among the literary and other sources that have inspired their works are those by Haruki Murakami, Ursula K. Le Guin, Carl Jung, George Orwell and Nietzsche. The Love Yourself series was influenced by Erich Fromm's The Art of Loving, and their 2018 song Magic Shop from Love Yourself: Tear was inspired by James R. Doty's memoir Into the Magic Shop.    Musical style  Since their inception, BTS have emphasized hip hop as their musical base, largely due to the influence of RM and Suga's background as underground rappers; during early visits to the US, the group received mentoring from American rappers. Bang Si-hyuk previously acknowledged that K-pop as a whole draws from black music, and author Crystal S. Anderson stated, BTS's rising popularity in the US represents the continuation of the ways that K-pop functions as part of a global R&B tradition. T.K. Park and Youngdae Kim of Vulture deemed the track Outro: Her from Love Yourself: Her as the best example of the group's understanding of old-school hip hop, with raps inspired by Chuck D and Tupac and jazzy chords from the 1990s to create a classic hip hop sound.  The release of Blood Sweat & Tears in 2016 accelerated BTS's transition from a hip hop to a pop group. Park and Kim noted that the song draws from dancehall, reggaeton, and moombahton but opts for a baroque mysticism rather than the partylike atmosphere of its influences. The group also began incorporating traditional Korean elements into their music. For example, their single Idol 2018 features an adlib from Pansori, a Korean form of operatic storytelling, and vocal imitations of the sounds of Korean janggu drums. While BTS maintains roots in hip hop, their sound has diversified. They first experimented with R&B, rock and jazz hip hop on Dark & Wild in 2014; EDM in their The Most Beautiful Moment in Life album series; moombahton and tropical house on Wings and You Never Walk Alone; future bass and Latin pop in their Love Yourself album series; slow-dance ballads, emo rap, Afro pop, funk, trap, pop rock, and hip pop in their Map of the Soul album series; and disco in their single Dynamite. The band members have explored different genres on solo tracks, such as neo soul on V's Stigma and flowing R&B on Jimin's Lie.    Lyrical themes  Since their formation, BTS have believed that telling their own stories is the best way for the younger generation to relate to their music. Writing many of their own lyrics, the group discusses universal life experiences such as sadness and loneliness in their work and turn them into something lighter and more manageable. RM stated that BTS tries to avoid a preaching or reprimanding tone in their songs because that's not the way that we want to spread our message ... We're born with different lives, but you cannot choose some things. So we thought that love, the real meaning of it, starts with loving ourselves and accepting some ironies and some destinies that we have from the very start. When asked if it is difficult to write about things like mental health, Suga responded,We feel that people who have the platform to talk about those things really should talk more, because they say depression is something where you go to the hospital and you're diagnosed, but you can't really know until the doctor talks to you ... More and more, I think artists or celebrities who have a voice should talk about these problems and bring it up to the surface. Themes explored in BTS's discography range from exploring the troubles and anxieties of school-age youth to themes like love, friendship, loss, death, and more. Early BTS songs, such as No More Dream and N.O from their school trilogy, were described by Tamar Herman as motivated by personal experiences with South Korea's rigid approach to education and called for change to the educational system and societal expectations. The members' experiences with South Korean youth culture also inspired the songs Dope and Silver Spoon Korean: 뱁새; RR: Baepsae from their youth trilogy. These songs reference generational disparity and millennials giving up romantic relationships, marriage, children, proper employment, homes, and social life in the face of economic difficulties and societal ills while facing condemnation from the media and older generations. The group's label dubbed The Most Beautiful Moment in Life: Young Forever, the conclusion to their youth trilogy, a special album that marks the conclusion of the epic journey of the series, containing the last stories told by young people who, despite an uncertain and insecure reality The Most Beautiful Moment in Life Pt. 1 continue to surge forward The Most Beautiful Moment in Life Pt. 2. Wings focused on mental health, criticisms of the K-pop idol scene, and delivering a female empowerment message. The Love Yourself series introduced new themes regarding youth culture in South Korea, including the excitement of love, pain of farewell, and enlightenment of self-love. According to Kathy Sprinkel, BTS's 2020 quarantine album Be chronicles the group's coming to terms with a suddenly new reality and offers support for their listeners going through the same upheaval and uncertainty. BTS's lyrics have also addressed topics outside youth culture. The song Am I Wrong from Wings questioned societal apathy towards changing the status quo; the lyric We're all dogs and pigs  we become dogs because we're angry appeared to reference South Korean Ministry of Education official Na Hyang-wook, who advocated a caste system for the country and who reportedly described average people as dogs and pigs. BTS released the song amid the 2016 South Korean political scandal that resulted in the impeachment of president Park Geun-hye. RM and Suga's personal struggles with mental health have inspired some of their music. Not Today from 2017's You Never Walk Alone is an anti-establishment anthem, urging all the underdogs in the world to keep fighting, and Spring Day honored the victims of the Sewol Ferry tragedy. Journalist Jeff Benjamin praised BTS in Fuse for speak[ing] honestly about topics they deem important, even in a conservative society. Former South Korean president Moon Jae-in said: Each of the seven members sings in a way that is true to himself and the life he wants to live. Their melody and lyrics transcend regional borders, language, culture, and institutions.    Impact   On April 29, 2019, Time magazine named BTS one of the 100 most influential people of the year, labeling them the Princes of Pop. Billboard executive Silvio Pietroluongo compared the group's influence to that of the Beatles. MRC Data executive Helena Kosinski noted that although BTS weren't the first to open the doors to K-Pop worldwide, they were the first to become mainstream. They don't just appeal to young people but also to the 50s and 60s age demographic. The first non-English speaking artist to make the Global Artist Chart in 2018, BTS was the second best-selling artists worldwide across multiple media platforms, second only to Drake. In 2020, BTS became the first non-western and non-English speaking artist to be named IFPI's Global Recording Artist of the Year. In South Korea, BTS accounted for 41.9 percent of album sales in the first half of 2019, up from their market share of 25.3 percent the previous year. In 2022, Youna Kim described BTS as having spearheaded the Korean Wave, representing the global expansion of Korean culture as effectively as Psy did in the previous decade and with the strength of influence that the Academy Award-winning South Korean film Parasite had in 2020. South Korea's central bank, the Bank of Korea, found in 2021 that BTS, including a ripple effect that included increased tourism to South Korea; increased interest in Korean culture, movies, and study of the Korean language; and added approximately US$5 billion per year to South Korea's economy, a growth of about 0.5 percent. A 2018 study showed that, on average, 800,000 foreigners per year had visited South Korea over the past four years for BTS-related reasons. Writers identified BTS as leaders even among other highly influential K-pop groups such as Girls' Generation, Super Junior, Exo, Twice, and Blackpink and note that BTS's success shows the importance of a strong, active fan base in the age of social media, where fan campaigning can be as important as musical quality to a song's success. The group has also distinguished themselves at the forefront of the business side of the K-pop industry by pursuing less restrictive contracts with their management company to maximize their artistic originality and creativity. With this newer approach to career management, BTS created closer ties to the South Korean youth and encourage individuality and authenticity among their audience.    Diplomacy  In his 1990 essay Soft Power, political scientist Joseph Nye developed the concept of a second type of power different from traditional authoritarianism. Nye wrote, This second aspect of power – which occurs when one country gets other countries to want what it wants – might be called co-optive or soft power in contrast with the hard or command power of ordering others to do what it wants. Researchers such as Maud Quessard have applied the concept of soft power to BTS and their influence on entertainment diplomacy and international relations.  Youna Kim and Maud Quessard all read the currency of soft power as including culture, political values, and foreign policy, which applies to BTS's ability to be co-optive in their approach to spreading their message of harmony, acceptance, and addressing life's setbacks via their broad appeal on the international stage.  BTS was invited to address the United Nations General Assembly in New York in September 2018. That same year they performed in Paris before an audience of 400, including President Moon Jae-in and other officials, at the 2018 Korea-France Friendship Concert, a summit celebrating the friendly relations between France and South Korea. That year, BTS became the youngest recipients of the Order of Cultural Merit. Despite cultural medals traditionally being given to recipients with over 15 years of achievement, Moon recognized the group, five years into their career, for their contributions in spreading Korean culture and language worldwide. In September 2019, BTS were mentioned by Moon while announcing strategies for the content industries, for having pioneered innovative business models through direct communication with fans. In 2020, BTS received the James A. Van Fleet Award in recognition of their outstanding contributions to the promotion of US-Korea relations, the youngest honorees to receive the award. In July 2021, they were appointed Special Presidential Envoy for Future Generations and Culture by President Moon. In their role as envoys, they help to raise awareness on global agendas, such as sustainable development, to our future generations and to strengthen the nation's diplomatic power across the world and appear at international events such as the 76th United Nations General Assembly. On May 31, 2022, BTS visited US President Joe Biden at the White House to discuss the recent rise in anti-Asian hate crimes and discrimination.    Fandom  According to Kyung Hyun Kim, BTS's rise was facilitated by a great increase in music video programming and consumption on YouTube and the coming of an idol empire, including merchandising of nonmusical products, games, and fantasy fiction, as well as an expansion of online music fandom. The group has a large, highly organized, online community of fans known as ARMY Adorable Representative M.C. for Youth, which translates the group's lyrics and social media posts into other languages and matches charitable contributions of BTS's members. As of 2020, some 40 million ARMY members subscribe to the band's YouTube channel, with more than 30 million following the official BTS Twitter and Instagram accounts. The fan community helps generate BTS's number-one chart rankings via coordinated campaigns on streaming platforms, as well as pushes to feature BTS's music on radio stations and television. Some ARMY members may even surpass the group itself in influence among BTS fans.  BTS interacted and engaged with their followers from their earliest days via social media, as well as via BTS Universe, an alternate storyline involving the members told through music videos, mobile games, books, short films, and more that gives fans room to theorize. Kim suggested that ARMY are drawn to BTS since the members are seen as underdogs, originating from the Korean countryside and a relatively minor Korean entertainment company, which allows young fans to identify with them. BTS's lyrics speak to social values, and fans respond by trying to improve the world. As a result, the fandom regularly embraces activism on charitable causes and socio-political issues such as refugee crises, racial discrimination, children's rights, climate change, and the COVID-19 pandemic. Feedback from ARMY to BTS affects the group's actions and lyrics; BTS has eliminated certain Korean words that sound like American racial slurs from their songs and ended collaboration with a Japanese producer when Korean ARMY members deemed his views extreme. Per South Korean author Jiyoung Lee, the relationship between BTS and ARMY is a mutual exchange between artists and their fans that is about more than merely ensuring the band's primacy, but also extending the band's message of positivity into the world. Lee opines that BTS and ARMY are a symbol of change in zeitgeist, not just of generational change. The band members themselves agree and have long acknowledged their fans' role in their success. According to Sarah Keith, BTS embody a moment of generational transformation. ARMY represents a 'coming of age' for the young, in which cultural production and influence are global and meaningful, and where the youth are politically and socially engaged.    Other ventures     Endorsements   BTS partnered with Puma beginning in 2015, initially as Puma Korea's brand ambassadors before expanding to global ambassadors in 2018, and promoting the remix of Puma's Turin and Sportstyle line worldwide. In 2019, BTS signed with Fila to endorse its sportswear. BTS has also served as global brand ambassadors for LG Electronics' smartphones, and Hyundai Motors' 2019 flagship SUV the Hyundai Palisade and hydrogen fuel cell electric SUV, the Hyundai Nexo. BTS became global ambassadors of the electric street racing series Formula E to promote how electric vehicles can help combat climate change. In 2020, BTS partnered with Samsung Electronics, releasing a limited BTS-themed version of the Galaxy S20+ and Galaxy Buds+. As the first male pop group ever to collaborate with Dior, BTS sported ensembles from Kim Jones' Pre-Fall 2019 collection at their concert at Stade de France. The band became global brand ambassadors for Louis Vuitton in April 2021.    Philanthropy   BTS are known for their philanthropic endeavors. Several members of the band have been inducted into prestigious donation clubs, such as the UNICEF Honors Club and the Green Noble Club, in acknowledgement of the size and frequency of their donations. They have also received awards for their donations, with one member receiving a Patron of the Arts Award for donations to the arts, and BTS as a whole receiving a UNICEF Inspire Award for their Love Myself campaign. They often donate privately, with their patronage later being made public by the organizations they support and the media. The band's efforts have motivated their fans to also engage in various charitable and humanitarian activities, and on occasion even match their donations.    Accolades   BTS have received numerous awards throughout their career. They have consecutively won the Billboard Music Award for Top Social Artist since 2017; are the only K-pop group to win Top DuoGroup, at the 2019 Billboard Music Awards; and are the most-awarded group in BBMA history as of 2022, with 12 wins overall. BTS are also the only K-pop group to win Favorite Duo or Group – PopRock and Favorite Social Artist at the American Music Awards, and became the first Asian act in the show's history to win Artist of the Year in 2021. They are the first Korean pop act to receive a Grammy Award nomination, and the first Korean artist to be nominated for a Brit Award. With 30 awards overall, including a record four consecutive wins for Artist of the Year Asia, BTS are the most-awarded foreign artist in the history of the Japan Gold Disc Awards. They have also received a total of 50 trophies at the MAMA Awards.    Members  Jin 진 –  vocalist Suga 슈가 –  rapper J-Hope 제이홉 –  rapper RM 알앰 –  leader, rapper Jimin 지민 –  vocalist V 뷔 –  vocalist Jung Kook 정국 –  vocalist    Discography     Filmography   Films  Burn the Stage: The Movie 2018 Love Yourself in Seoul 2019 Bring the Soul: The Movie 2019 Break the Silence: The Movie 2020 BTS: Permission to Dance on Stage – LA 2022 BTS: Yet to Come in Cinemas 2023 Online shows  Run BTS 2015–present BTS In the Soop 2020–2021 BTS: Bon Voyage 2016–present    Bibliography  Beyond the Story 2023    Concert tours   The Red Bullet Tour 2014–2015 Wake Up: Open Your Eyes Japan Tour 2015 The Most Beautiful Moment in Life On Stage Tour 2015–2016 The Wings Tour 2017 Love Yourself World Tour 2018–2019 Map of the Soul Tour 2020; cancelled Permission to Dance on Stage 2021–2022    Notes     References     Cited literature  Anderson, Crystal S. 2020. Soul in Seoul: African American Popular Music and K-pop. University Press of Mississippi. ISBN 978-1-4968-3009-8. Hunt, Robert; McKelvey, Fenwick 2019. Algorithmic Regulation in Media and Cultural Policy: A Framework to Evaluate Barriers to Accountability. Journal of Information Policy. 9: 307–335. doi:10.5325jinfopoli.9.2019.0307. JSTOR 10.5325jinfopoli.9.2019.0307. S2CID 213521720. Jin, Dal Yong 2022. Transnational Cultural Power of BTS: Digital Fan Activism in the Social Media Era. In Kim, Youna ed.. The Soft Power of the Korean Wave: Parasite, BTS and Drama. Routledge. pp. 142–154. ISBN 978-1-00310-248-9. Ju, Hyunshik. Premediating a Narrative of Growth: BTS, Digital Media, and Fan Culture. Popular Entertainment Studies: 19–33. ISSN 1837-9303. Archived from the original on March 21, 2022. Retrieved June 7, 2022. Keith, Sarah 2022. BTS as Cultural Ambassadors. In Kim, Youna ed.. The Soft Power of the Korean Wave: Parasite, BTS and Drama. Routledge. pp. 152–167. ISBN 978-1-00310-248-9. Kim, Kyung Hyun 2021. Hegemonic Mimicry: Korean Popular Culture of the Twenty-first Century. Duke University Press. ISBN 978-1-4780-1358-7. Kim, Kyung Hyun 2022. BTS and the World Music Industry. In Kim, Youna ed.. The Soft Power of the Korean Wave: Parasite, BTS and Drama. Routledge. pp. 107–117. ISBN 978-1-00310-248-9. Kim, Youna 2022. Introduction: Popular Culture and Soft Power in the Social Media Age. In Kim, Youna ed.. The Soft Power of the Korean Wave: Parasite, BTS and Drama. Routledge. pp. 1–38. ISBN 978-1-00310-248-9. Kim, Young-dae 2019a. BTS–The Review: A Comprehensive Look at the Music of BTS. Translated by H.J. Chung. RH Korea. ISBN 978-8-925-56582-8. Lie, John 2022. BTS, the Highest Stage of K-Pop. In Kim, Youna ed.. The Soft Power of the Korean Wave: Parasite, BTS and Drama. Routledge. pp. 118–128. ISBN 978-1-00310-248-9. Quessard, Maud 2020. Entertainment Diplomacy. In Balzacq, Thierry; Charillon, Frédéric; Ramel, Frédéric eds.. Global Diplomacy: An Introduction to the Theory and Practice. Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 279–296. doi:10.1007978-3-030-28786-321. ISBN 978-3-03028-785-6. S2CID 211355635. Shapiro, Marc 2018. Burn the Stage: The Rise of BTS and Korean Boy Bands. Riverdale Avenue Books. ISBN 978-1-62601-490-9. Sprinkel, Katy 2021. BTS: One. Triumph Books. ISBN 978-1-64125-643-8.    Further reading  Kim, Suk-young, ed. 2023. Part V: The Band That Surprised the World. The Cambridge Companion to K-Pop. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-1-108-94478-6.    External links   Official website 